Tirana ( (listen); Albanian pronunciation: [tiˈɾana]; also Gheg Albanian: Tirona) 
is the capital and most populous city of Albania. The 
city is also the capital of the surrounding county of 
Tirana, one of 12 constituent counties of the country. By 
air, it is 501 kilometres (311 miles) north of Athens, 
613 kilometres (381 miles) southeast of Rome, 153 kilometres (95 
miles) southwest of Skopje and 131 kilometres (81 miles) south 
of Podgorica. Tirana was founded as a city in 1614, 
but the region that today corresponds to the city territory 
has been continuously inhabited since the Bronze Age. As most 
of Albania, the area was populated by several Illyrian tribes, 
but had no importance within Illyria. Indeed, it was annexed 
by Rome and became an integral part of the Roman 
Empire following the Illyrian Wars. The heritage of that period 
is still evident and represented by the Mosaics of Tirana. 
Further later in the 5th and 6th century, a Paleo 
Christian basilica was built around this site. When the Roman 
Empire divided into east and west, its successor the Byzantine 
Empire took control and included the construction of the Petrelë 
Castle, under the reign of Justinian I. Until the 20th 
century, the city did not attain much significance, when the 
Congress of Lushnjë proclaimed it as the country's capital, after 
the country's declaration of independence in 1912. Tirana is located 
in the center of the country surrounded by mountains and 
hills, with Dajt on the east and a slight valley 
opening on the northwest, overlooking the Adriatic Sea in the 
distance. Due to its location within the Tirana plain and 
the close proximity to the Adriatic Sea, the city is 
influenced by a mediterranean seasonal climate. It is among the 
wettest and sunniest cities in Europe, with 2,544 hours of 
sun per year.Being a primate city, Tirana is considered the 
economic and cultural hub of Albania, due to its significant 
location and importance in finance, commerce, media, entertainment, arts, international 
trade, education, service, research and healthcare. All of the country's 
largest companies, media and scientific institutions have their headquarters in 
the city. Tirana is also the seat of power of 
the Government of Albania, the residences for work of the 
Andorra la Vella (Catalan pronunciation: [ənˈdorə lə ˈβeʎə], Spanish: Andorra 
la Vieja, French: Andorre-la-Vieille) is the capital of the Principality 
of Andorra. It is located high in the east Pyrenees, 
between France and Spain. It is also the name of 
the parish that surrounds the capital. As of 2015, the 
city has a population of 22,886, and the urban area, 
which includes Escaldes-Engordany plus satellite villages, has over 40,000 inhabitants. 
The principal industry is tourism, although the country also earns 
foreign income from being a tax haven. Furniture and brandies 
are local products. Being at an elevation of 1,023 metres 
(3,356 ft), it is the highest capital city in Europe 
Yerevan (, YE-rə-VAHN; Armenian: Երևան [jɛɾɛˈvɑn] (listen), sometimes spelled Erevan) 
is the capital and largest city of Armenia as well 
as one of the world's oldest continuously inhabited cities. Situated 
along the Hrazdan River, Yerevan is the administrative, cultural, and 
industrial center of the country. It has been the capital 
since 1918, the fourteenth in the history of Armenia and 
the seventh located in or around the Ararat plain. The 
city also serves as the seat of the Araratian Pontifical 
Diocese; the largest diocese of the Armenian Apostolic Church and 
one of the oldest dioceses in the world.The history of 
Yerevan dates back to the 8th century BC, with the 
founding of the fortress of Erebuni in 782 BC by 
king Argishti I at the western extreme of the Ararat 
plain. Erebuni was "designed as a great administrative and religious 
centre, a fully royal capital." By the late ancient Armenian 
Kingdom, new capital cities were established and Yerevan declined in 
importance. Under Iranian and Russian rule, it was the center 
of the Erivan Khanate from 1736 to 1828 and the 
Erivan Governorate from 1850 to 1917, respectively. After World War 
I, Yerevan became the capital of the First Republic of 
Armenia as thousands of survivors of the Armenian Genocide in 
the Ottoman Empire arrived in the area. The city expanded 
rapidly during the 20th century as Armenia became part of 
the Soviet Union. In a few decades, Yerevan was transformed 
from a provincial town within the Russian Empire to Armenia's 
principal cultural, artistic, and industrial center, as well as becoming 
the seat of national government. With the growth of the 
Armenian economy, Yerevan has undergone major transformation. Much construction has 
been done throughout the city since the early 2000s, and 
retail outlets such as restaurants, shops, and street cafés, which 
were rare during Soviet times, have multiplied. As of 2011, 
the population of Yerevan was 1,060,138, just over 35% of 
the Republic of Armenia's total population. According to the official 
estimate of 2016, the current population of the city is 
1,073,700. Yerevan was named the 2012 World Book Capital by 
UNESCO. Yerevan is an associate member of Eurocities.Of the notable 
landmarks of Yerevan, Erebuni Fortress is considered to be the 
birthplace of the city, the Katoghike Tsiranavor church is the 
oldest surviving church of Yerevan and Saint Gregory Cathedral is 
the largest Armenian cathedral in the world, Tsitsernakaberd is the 
official memorial to the victims of the Armenian Genocide, and 
several opera houses, theatres, museums, libraries, and other cultural institutions. 
Yerevan Opera Theatre is the main spectacle hall of the 
Armenian capital, the National Gallery of Armenia is the largest 
art museum in the Republic of Armenia and shares a 
building with the History Museum of Armenia, and the Matenadaran 
repository contains one of the largest depositories of ancient books 
Vienna ( (listen); German: Wien, pronounced [viːn] (listen)) is the 
federal capital and largest city of Austria, and one of 
the nine states of Austria. Vienna is Austria's primate city, 
with a population of about 1.9 million (2.6 million within 
the metropolitan area, nearly one third of Austria's population), and 
its cultural, economic, and political centre. It is the 7th-largest 
city by population within city limits in the European Union. 
Until the beginning of the 20th century, it was the 
largest German-speaking city in the world, and before the splitting 
of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in World War I, the city 
had 2 million inhabitants. Today, it has the second largest 
number of German speakers after Berlin. Vienna is host to 
many major international organizations, including the United Nations and OPEC. 
The city is located in the eastern part of Austria 
and is close to the borders of the Czech Republic, 
Slovakia, and Hungary. These regions work together in a European 
Centrope border region. Along with nearby Bratislava, Vienna forms a 
metropolitan region with 3 million inhabitants. In 2001, the city 
centre was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site. In July 
2017 it was moved to the list of World Heritage 
in Danger.Apart from being regarded as the City of Music 
because of its musical legacy, Vienna is also said to 
be "The City of Dreams" because it was home to 
the world's first psychoanalyst – Sigmund Freud. The city's roots 
lie in early Celtic and Roman settlements that transformed into 
a Medieval and Baroque city, and then the capital of 
the Austro-Hungarian Empire. It is well known for having played 
an essential role as a leading European music centre, from 
the great age of Viennese Classicism through the early part 
of the 20th century. The historic centre of Vienna is 
rich in architectural ensembles, including Baroque castles and gardens, and 
the late-19th-century Ringstraße lined with grand buildings, monuments and parks.Vienna 
is known for its high quality of life. In a 
2005 study of 127 world cities, the Economist Intelligence Unit 
ranked the city first (in a tie with Vancouver and 
San Francisco) for the world's most liveable cities. Between 2011 
and 2015, Vienna was ranked second, behind Melbourne. In 2018, 
it replaced Melbourne as the number one spot. For eight 
consecutive years (2009–2016), the human-resource-consulting firm Mercer ranked Vienna first 
in its annual "Quality of Living" survey of hundreds of 
cities around the world, a title the city still held 
in 2016. Monocle's 2015 "Quality of Life Survey" ranked Vienna 
second on a list of the top 25 cities in 
the world "to make a base within."The UN-Habitat classified Vienna 
as the most prosperous city in the world in 2012/2013. 
The city was ranked 1st globally for its culture of 
innovation in 2007 and 2008, and sixth globally (out of 
256 cities) in the 2014 Innovation Cities Index, which analyzed 
162 indicators in covering three areas: culture, infrastructure, and markets. 
Vienna regularly hosts urban planning conferences and is often used 
as a case study by urban planners.Between 2005 and 2010, 
Vienna was the world's number-one destination for international congresses and 
Baku ( bə-KOO, BAH-koo; Azerbaijani: Bakı, IPA: [bɑˈcɯ]) is the 
capital and largest city of Azerbaijan, as well as the 
largest city on the Caspian Sea and of the Caucasus 
region. Baku is located 28 metres (92 ft) below sea 
level, which makes it the lowest lying national capital in 
the world and also the largest city in the world 
located below sea level. It is located on the southern 
shore of the Absheron Peninsula, alongside the Bay of Baku. 
At the beginning of 2009, Baku's urban population was estimated 
at just over two million people. Officially, about 25 percent 
of all inhabitants of the country live in Baku's metropolitan 
area. Baku is the sole metropolis in Azerbaijan. Baku is 
divided into twelve administrative Baku's (raions) and 48 townships. Among 
these are the townships on the islands of the Baku 
Archipelago, and the town of Oil Rocks built on stilts 
in the Caspian Sea, 60 kilometres (37 miles) away from 
Baku. The Inner City of Baku, along with the Shirvanshah's 
Palace and Maiden Tower, were inscribed as a UNESCO World 
Heritage Site in 2000. According to the Lonely Planet's ranking, 
Baku is also among the world's top ten destinations for 
urban nightlife.The city is the scientific, cultural, and industrial center 
of Azerbaijan. Many sizeable Azerbaijani institutions have their headquarters there. 
The Baku International Sea Trade Port is capable of handling 
two million tons of general and dry bulk cargoes per 
year. In recent years, Baku has become an important venue 
for international events. It hosted the 57th Eurovision Song Contest 
in 2012, the 2015 European Games, 4th Islamic Solidarity Games, 
the F1 Azerbaijan Grand Prix since 2016, and will host 
UEFA Euro 2020. The city is bidding for Expo 2025 
against Yekaterinburg, Russia and Osaka, Japan. The city is renowned 
for its harsh winds, which is reflected in its nickname, 
Minsk (Belarusian: Мінск, pronounced [mʲinsk]; Russian: Минск, [mʲinsk]) is the 
capital and largest city of Belarus, situated on the Svislač 
and the Nyamiha Rivers. As the national capital, Minsk has 
a special administrative status in Belarus and is the administrative 
centre of Minsk Region (voblasć) and Minsk District (rajon). The 
population in January 2018 was 1,982,444, making Minsk the 11th 
most populous city in Europe. Minsk is the administrative capital 
of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and seat of 
the Executive Secretary. The earliest historical references to Minsk date 
to the 11th century (1067), when it was noted as 
a provincial city within the Principality of Polotsk. The settlement 
developed on the rivers. In 1242, Minsk became part of 
the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. It received town privileges in 
1499. From 1569, it was a capital of the Minsk 
Voivodeship, in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. It was part of a 
region annexed by the Russian Empire in 1793, as a 
consequence of the Second Partition of Poland. From 1919 to 
1991, after the Russian Revolution, Minsk was the capital of 
the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, in the Soviet Union. Minsk 
Brussels (French: Bruxelles [bʁysɛl] (listen); Dutch: Brussel [ˈbrʏsəl] (listen)), officially 
the Brussels-Capital Region (French: Région de Bruxelles-Capitale, Dutch: Brussels Hoofdstedelijk 
Gewest), is a region of Belgium comprising 19 municipalities, including 
the City of Brussels, which is the capital of Belgium. 
The Brussels-Capital Region is located in the central portion of 
the country and is a part of both the French 
Community of Belgium and the Flemish Community, but is separate 
from the Flemish Region (in which it forms an enclave) 
and the Walloon Region. Brussels is the most densely populated 
and the richest region in Belgium in terms of GDP 
per capita. It covers 161 km2 (62 sq mi), a 
relatively small area compared to the two other regions, and 
has a population of 1.2 million. The metropolitan area of 
Brussels counts over 2.1 million people, which makes it the 
largest in Belgium. It is also part of a large 
conurbation extending towards Ghent, Antwerp, Leuven and Walloon Brabant, home 
to over 5 million people.Brussels grew from a small rural 
settlement on the river Senne to become an important city-region 
in Europe. Since the end of the Second World War, 
it has been a major centre for international politics and 
the home of numerous international organisations, politicians, diplomats and civil 
servants. Brussels is the de facto capital of the European 
Union, as it hosts a number of principal EU institutions 
(the two other capitals are Luxembourg and Strasbourg) and its 
name is sometimes used metonymically to describe the EU and 
its institutions. The secretariat of the Benelux and headquarters of 
NATO are also located in Brussels. As the economic capital 
of Belgium and one of the top financial centres of 
Western Europe with Euronext Brussels, it is classified as an 
Alpha global city. Brussels is a hub for rail, road 
and air traffic, sometimes earning the moniker "Crossroads of Europe". 
The Brussels Metro is the only rapid transit system in 
Belgium. In addition, both its airport and railway stations are 
the largest and busiest in the country.Historically Dutch-speaking, Brussels saw 
a language shift to French from the late 19th century. 
The Brussels-Capital Region is officially bilingual in Dutch and French, 
even though French is now the de facto main language 
with over 90% of the population speaking it. Brussels is 
also increasingly becoming multilingual. English is spoken as a second 
language by nearly a third of the population and a 
large number of migrants and expatriates speak other languages.Brussels is 
known for its cuisine and gastronomy, as well as its 
historical and architectural landmarks; some of them are registered as 
UNESCO World Heritage sites. Main attractions include its historic Grand 
Place, Manneken Pis, Atomium, and cultural institutions such as La 
Monnaie and the Museums of Art and History. It is 
Sarajevo (; Cyrillic: Сарајево, pronounced [sǎrajeʋo]; see names in other 
languages) is the capital and largest city of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, with a population of 275,524 in its administrative limits. 
The Sarajevo metropolitan area, including Sarajevo Canton, East Sarajevo and 
nearby municipalities, is home to 555,210 inhabitants.a Nestled within the 
greater Sarajevo valley of Bosnia, it is surrounded by the 
Dinaric Alps and situated along the Miljacka River in the 
heart of the Balkans. Sarajevo is the political, social and 
cultural center of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a prominent center of 
culture in the Balkans, with its region-wide influence in entertainment, 
media, fashion, and the arts.Due to its long and rich 
history of religious and cultural diversity, Sarajevo is sometimes called 
the "Jerusalem of Europe" or "Jerusalem of the Balkans". It 
is one of only a few major European cities which 
have a mosque, Catholic church, Orthodox church and synagogue in 
the same neighborhood. A regional center in education, the city 
is home to the Balkans first institution of tertiary education 
in the form of an Islamic polytechnic called the Saraybosna 
Osmanlı Medrese, today part of the University of Sarajevo.Although settlement 
in the area stretches back to prehistoric times, the modern 
city arose as an Ottoman stronghold in the 15th century. 
Sarajevo has attracted international attention several times throughout its history. 
In 1885, Sarajevo was the first city in Europe and 
the second city in the world to have a full-time 
electric tram network running through the city, following San Francisco. 
In 1914, it was the site of the assassination of 
Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria by local Young Bosnia activist 
Gavrilo Princip that sparked World War I, which also ended 
Austro-Hungarian rule in Bosnia and resulted in the creation of 
the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Later, after World War II, the 
establishment of the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina within 
the Second Yugoslavia led to a massive expansion of Sarajevo, 
the constituent republic's capital, which culminated with the hosting of 
the 1984 Winter Olympics marking a prosperous era for the 
city. However, after the start of the Yugoslav Wars, for 
1,425 days, from April 1992 to February 1996, the city 
suffered the longest siege of a capital city in the 
history of modern warfare, during the Bosnian War and the 
breakup of Yugoslavia.Sarajevo has been undergoing post-war reconstruction, and is 
the fastest growing city in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The travel 
guide series Lonely Planet has named Sarajevo as the 43rd 
best city in the world, and in December 2009 listed 
Sarajevo as one of the top ten cities to visit 
in 2010. In 2011, Sarajevo was nominated to be the 
European Capital of Culture in 2014 and will be hosting 
Sofia ( SOH-fee-ə, SOF-, soh-FEE-ə; Bulgarian: Со́фия, translit. Sofiya, IPA: 
[ˈsɔfijə] (listen)) is the capital and largest city of Bulgaria. 
The city is at the foot of Vitosha Mountain in 
the western part of the country. Being in the centre 
of the Balkan peninsula, it is midway between the Black 
Sea and the Adriatic Sea, and closest to the Aegean 
Sea.Sofia has been an area of human habitation since at 
least 7000 BC. The recorded history of Sofia begins with 
the attestation of the conquest of Serdica by the Roman 
Republic in 29 BC from the Celtic tribe Serdi, raided 
by Huns in 343-347 AD and 447 AD, conquered by 
Visigoths in 376-382 AD, conquered by Avars and Slavs in 
617 AD, and on 9th April, 809 Serdica was surrendered 
to Krum of Bulgaria. Bulgarian rule lasted until 1018, in 
1040 and 1193-1382, which was interrupted by more than a 
century of Byzantine rule, several years of Serb, Hungarian and 
Crusader control, and by nearly five centuries-long Ottoman rule until 
Bulgarian rule was restored in 1878. During World War II 
Sofia was bombarded by the UK and US Air Forces 
and at the end of the war, it was seized 
by the Soviet Army. Being Bulgaria's primate city, Sofia is 
a hometown of many of the major local universities, cultural 
institutions and commercial companies. Sofia is one of the top 
10 best places for start-up business in the world, especially 
in information technologies. Sofia was Europe's most affordable capital to 
visit in 2013.The population of Sofia declined down from 70,000 
in the late 18th century, through 19,000 in 1870, to 
11,649 in 1878 and began increasing. Sofia hosts some 1.23 
million residents within a territory of 492 km², a concentration 
of 17.5% of the country population within the 200th percentile 
of the country territory. The urban area of Sofia hosts 
some 1.54 million residents within 5723 km², which comprises Sofia 
City Province and parts of Sofia Province (Dragoman, Slivnitsa, Kostinbrod, 
Bozhurishte, Svoge, Elin Pelin, Gorna Malina, Ihtiman, Kostenets) and Pernik 
Province (Pernik, Radomir), representing 5.16% of the country territory. The 
metropolitan area of Sofia is based upon one hour of 
car travel time, stretches internationally and includes Dimitrovgrad in Serbia. 
Unlike most European metropolitan areas, it is not to be 
defined as a substantially functional metropolitan area, but is of 
the type with "limited variety of functions". The metropolitan region 
of Sofia is inhabited by a population of 1.68 million 
and is made up of the whole provinces Sofia City, 
Zagreb ( ZAH-greb, Croatian pronunciation: [zǎːɡreb] (listen)) is the capital 
and the largest city of Croatia. It is located in 
the northwest of the country, along the Sava river, at 
the southern slopes of the Medvednica mountain. Zagreb lies at 
an elevation of approximately 122 m (400 ft) above sea 
level. The estimated population of the city in 2018 is 
810,003. The population of the Zagreb urban agglomeration is about 
1.1 million, approximately a quarter of the total population of 
Croatia. Zagreb is a city with a rich history dating 
from the Roman times to the present day. The oldest 
settlement located in the vicinity of the city was the 
Roman Andautonia, in today's Ščitarjevo. The name "Zagreb" is recorded 
in 1134, in reference to the foundation of the settlement 
at Kaptol in 1094. Zagreb became a free royal town 
in 1242. In 1851 Zagreb had its first mayor, Janko 
Kamauf. Zagreb has special status as a Croatian administrative division 
and is a consolidated city-county (but separated from Zagreb County), 
and is administratively subdivided into 17 city districts. Most of 
them are at a low elevation along the river Sava 
valley, whereas northern and northeastern city districts, such as Podsljeme 
and Sesvete districts are situated in the foothills of the 
Medvednica mountain, making the city's geographical image rather diverse. The 
city extends over 30 kilometres (19 miles) east-west and around 
20 kilometres (12 miles) north-south.The transport connections, concentration of industry, 
scientific, and research institutions and industrial tradition underlie its leading 
economic position in Croatia. Zagreb is the seat of the 
central government, administrative bodies, and almost all government ministries. Almost 
all of the largest Croatian companies, media, and scientific institutions 
have their headquarters in the city. Zagreb is the most 
important transport hub in Croatia where Central Europe, the Mediterranean 
and Southeast Europe meet, making the Zagreb area the centre 
of the road, rail and air networks of Croatia. It 
is a city known for its diverse economy, high quality 
of living, museums, sporting, and entertainment events. Its main branches 
Nicosia ( NIK-ə-SEE-ə; Greek: Λευκωσία, translit. Lefkosia [lefkoˈsi.a]; Turkish: Lefkoşa 
[lefˈkoʃa]) is the largest city, capital, and seat of government 
of the island of Cyprus. It is located near the 
centre of the Mesaoria plain, on the banks of the 
River Pedieos. Nicosia is the farthest southeast of all EU 
member states' capitals. It has been continuously inhabited for over 
4,500 years and has been the capital of Cyprus since 
the 10th century. The Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities 
of Nicosia segregated into the south and north of the 
city respectively in 1963, following the crisis from 1955–64 that 
broke out in the city. This separation became a militarized 
border between the Republic of Cyprus and Northern Cyprus after 
Turkey invaded the island of Cyprus in 1974, occupying the 
north of the island, including northern Nicosia. Today North Nicosia 
is the capital of Northern Cyprus, a state recognized only 
by Turkey, that is considered to be occupied Cypriot territory 
by the international community. Apart from its legislative and administrative 
functions, Nicosia has established itself as the island's financial capital 
and its main international business centre. In 2018, Nicosia was 
the 32nd richest city in the world in relative purchasing 
Prague (; Czech: Praha [ˈpraɦa] (listen), German: Prag) is the 
capital and largest city in the Czech Republic, the 14th 
largest city in the European Union and the historical capital 
of Bohemia. Situated in the north-west of the country on 
the Vltava river, the city is home to about 1.3 
million people, while its metropolitan area is estimated to have 
a population of 2.6 million. The city has a temperate 
climate, with warm summers and chilly winters. Prague has been 
a political, cultural and economic centre of central Europe complete 
with a rich history. Founded during the Romanesque and flourishing 
by the Gothic, Renaissance and Baroque eras, Prague was the 
capital of the kingdom of Bohemia and the main residence 
of several Holy Roman Emperors, most notably of Charles IV 
(r. 1346–1378). It was an important city to the Habsburg 
Monarchy and its Austro-Hungarian Empire. The city played major roles 
in the Bohemian and Protestant Reformation, the Thirty Years' War 
and in 20th-century history as the capital of Czechoslovakia, during 
both World Wars and the post-war Communist era.Prague is home 
to a number of famous cultural attractions, many of which 
survived the violence and destruction of 20th-century Europe. Main attractions 
include Prague Castle, Charles Bridge, Old Town Square with the 
Prague astronomical clock, the Jewish Quarter, Petřín hill and Vyšehrad. 
Since 1992, the extensive historic centre of Prague has been 
included in the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites. The 
city has more than ten major museums, along with numerous 
theatres, galleries, cinemas and other historical exhibits. An extensive modern 
public transportation system connects the city. Also, it is home 
to a wide range of public and private schools, including 
Charles University in Prague, the oldest university in Central Europe.Prague 
is classified as a "Beta+" global city according to GaWC 
studies and ranked sixth in the Tripadvisor world list of 
best destinations in 2016. Its rich history makes it a 
popular tourist destination and as of 2017, the city receives 
more than 8.5 million international visitors annually. Prague is the 
fifth most visited European city after London, Paris, Istanbul and 
Copenhagen (Danish: København [købm̩ˈhɑwˀn] (listen)) is the capital and most 
populous city of Denmark. As of July 2018, the city 
has a population of 777,218 (616,098 in Copenhagen Municipality, 103,914 
in Frederiksberg Municipality, 43,005 in Tårnby Municipality, and 14,201 in 
Dragør Municipality). It forms the core of the wider urban 
area of Copenhagen (population 1,627,705) and the Copenhagen metropolitan area 
(population 2,057,737). Copenhagen is situated on the eastern coast of 
the island of Zealand; another small portion of the city 
is located on Amager, and is separated from Malmö, Sweden, 
by the strait of Øresund. The Øresund Bridge connects the 
two cities by rail and road. Originally a Viking fishing 
village established in the 10th century in the vicinity of 
what is now Gammel Strand, Copenhagen became the capital of 
Denmark in the early 15th century. Beginning in the 17th 
century it consolidated its position as a regional centre of 
power with its institutions, defences and armed forces. After suffering 
from the effects of plague and fire in the 18th 
century, the city underwent a period of redevelopment. This included 
construction of the prestigious district of Frederiksstaden and founding of 
such cultural institutions as the Royal Theatre and the Royal 
Academy of Fine Arts. After further disasters in the early 
19th century when Horatio Nelson attacked the Dano-Norwegian fleet and 
bombarded the city, rebuilding during the Danish Golden Age brought 
a Neoclassical look to Copenhagen's architecture. Later, following the Second 
World War, the Finger Plan fostered the development of housing 
and businesses along the five urban railway routes stretching out 
from the city centre. Since the turn of the 21st 
century, Copenhagen has seen strong urban and cultural development, facilitated 
by investment in its institutions and infrastructure. The city is 
the cultural, economic and governmental centre of Denmark; it is 
one of the major financial centres of Northern Europe with 
the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. Copenhagen's economy has seen rapid developments 
in the service sector, especially through initiatives in information technology, 
pharmaceuticals and clean technology. Since the completion of the Øresund 
Bridge, Copenhagen has become increasingly integrated with the Swedish province 
of Scania and its largest city, Malmö, forming the Øresund 
Region. With a number of bridges connecting the various districts, 
the cityscape is characterised by parks, promenades and waterfronts. Copenhagen's 
landmarks such as Tivoli Gardens, The Little Mermaid statue, the 
Amalienborg and Christiansborg palaces, Rosenborg Castle Gardens, Frederik's Church, and 
many museums, restaurants and nightclubs are significant tourist attractions. The 
largest lake of Denmark, Arresø, lies around 27 miles (43 
kilometers) northwest of the City Hall Square. Copenhagen is home 
to the University of Copenhagen, the Technical University of Denmark, 
Copenhagen Business School and the IT University of Copenhagen. The 
University of Copenhagen, founded in 1479, is the oldest university 
in Denmark. Copenhagen is home to the FC København and 
Brøndby football clubs. The annual Copenhagen Marathon was established in 
1980. Copenhagen is one of the most bicycle-friendly cities in 
the world. The Copenhagen Metro launched in 2002 serves central 
Copenhagen while the Copenhagen S-train and Lokaltog (private railway) and 
the Coast Line network serves and connects central Copenhagen to 
outlying boroughs. To relieve traffic congestion, which is partly the 
result of increased traffic because of the Fehmarn Belt Fixed 
Link road and rail construction is planned because the narrow 
9-9.5 mile isthmus between Roskilde Fjord and Køge Bugt (Køge 
Bay) forms a traffic bottleneck. The Copenhagen-Ringsted Line will relieve 
traffic congestion in the corridor between Roskilde and Copenhagen. Serving 
roughly two million passengers a month, Copenhagen Airport, Kastrup, is 
Tallinn (; Estonian: [ˈtɑlʲˑinˑ]; names in other languages) is the 
capital and largest city of Estonia. It is on the 
northern coast of the country, on the shore of the 
Gulf of Finland in Harju County. From the 13th century 
until 1918 (and briefly during the Nazi occupation of Estonia 
from 1941 to 1944), the city was known as Reval. 
Tallinn occupies an area of 159.2 km2 (61.5 sq mi) 
and has a population of 453,328.Tallinn, first mentioned in 1219, 
received city rights in 1248, but the earliest human settlements 
date back 5,000 years. The initial claim over the land 
was laid by the Danes in 1219, after a successful 
raid of Lindanise led by Valdemar II of Denmark, followed 
by a period of alternating Scandinavian and German rule. Due 
to its strategic location, the city became a major trade 
hub, especially from the 14th to the 16th century, when 
it grew in importance as part of the Hanseatic League. 
Tallinn's Old Town is one of the best preserved medieval 
cities in Europe and is listed as a UNESCO World 
Heritage Site. Tallinn is the major political, financial, cultural and 
educational center of Estonia. Often dubbed the Silicon Valley of 
Europe, it has the highest number of startups per person 
in Europe and is a birthplace of many international companies, 
including Skype. The city is to house the headquarters of 
the European Union's IT agency. Providing to the global cybersecurity 
it is the home to the NATO Cyber Defence Centre 
of Excellence. It is ranked as a global city and 
has been listed among the top 10 digital cities in 
the world. According to the Global Financial Centres Index Tallinn 
is the most competitive financial center in Northern Europe and 
ranks 52nd internationally. The city was a European Capital of 
Helsinki (; Finnish: [ˈhelsiŋki] (listen); Swedish: Helsingfors [hɛlsɪŋˈfɔʂː] (listen)) is 
the capital city and most populous municipality of Finland. Located 
on the shore of the Gulf of Finland, it is 
the seat of the region of Uusimaa in southern Finland, 
and has a population of 648,650. The city's urban area 
has a population of 1,268,296, making it by far the 
most populous urban area in Finland as well as the 
country's most important center for politics, education, finance, culture, and 
research. Helsinki is located 80 kilometres (50 mi) north of 
Tallinn, Estonia, 400 km (250 mi) east of Stockholm, Sweden, 
and 390 km (240 mi) west of Saint Petersburg, Russia. 
It has close historical ties with these three cities. Together 
with the cities of Espoo, Vantaa, and Kauniainen, and surrounding 
commuter towns, Helsinki forms the Greater Helsinki metropolitan area, which 
has a population of nearly 1.5 million. Often considered to 
be Finland's only metropolis, it is the world's northernmost metro 
area with over one million people as well as the 
northernmost capital of an EU member state. After Stockholm and 
Oslo, Helsinki is the third largest city in the Nordic 
countries. The city is served by the international Helsinki Airport, 
located in the neighboring city of Vantaa, with frequent service 
to many destinations in Europe and Asia. Helsinki was the 
World Design Capital for 2012, the venue for the 1952 
Summer Olympics, and the host of the 52nd Eurovision Song 
Contest. Helsinki has one of the highest urban standards of 
living in the world. In 2011, the British magazine Monocle 
ranked Helsinki the world's most liveable city in its liveable 
cities index. In the Economist Intelligence Unit's 2016 liveability survey, 
Paris (French pronunciation: ​[paʁi] (listen)) is the capital and most 
populous city of France, with an area of 105 square 
kilometres (41 square miles) and a population of 2,206,488. Since 
the 17th century, Paris has been one of Europe's major 
centres of finance, commerce, fashion, science, and the arts. The 
City of Paris is the center and seat of government 
of the Ile-de-France, or Paris Region, which has an estimated 
official 2018 population of 12,246,234 persons, or 18.2 percent of 
the population of France. The Paris Region had a GDP 
of €681 billion (US$850 billion) in 2016, accounting for 31 
per cent of the GDP of France. According to the 
Economist Intelligence Unit Worldwide Cost of Living Survey in 2018, 
Paris was the second-most expensive city in the world, behind 
Singapore and ahead of Zurich, Hong Kong, Oslo and Geneva.The 
city is a major rail, highway, and air-transport hub served 
by two international airports: Paris-Charles de Gaulle (the second busiest 
airport in Europe after London Heathrow Airport with 69.5 million 
passengers in 2017) and Paris-Orly. Opened in 1900, the city's 
subway system, the Paris Métro, serves 5.23 million passengers daily, 
and is the second busiest metro system in Europe after 
Moscow Metro. Paris's Gare du Nord is one of the 
ten busiest railway stations in the world, with 262 million 
passengers in 2015.Paris is especially known for its museums and 
architectural landmarks: the Louvre was the most visited art museum 
in the world in 2017, with 8.1 million visitors. The 
Musée d'Orsay and Musée de l'Orangerie are noted for their 
collections of French Impressionist art, and the Pompidou Centre Musée 
National d'Art Moderne has the largest collection of modern and 
contemporary art in Europe. The historical district along the Seine 
in the city centre is classified as a UNESCO Heritage 
Site. Popular landmarks in the centre of the city include 
the Cathedral of Notre Dame de Paris and the Gothic 
royal chapel of Sainte-Chapelle, both on the Île de la 
Cité; the Eiffel Tower, constructed for the Paris Universal Exposition 
of 1889; the Grand Palais and Petit Palais, built for 
the Paris Universal Exposition of 1900; the Arc de Triomphe 
on the Champs-Élysées, and the Basilica of Sacré-Coeur on the 
hill of Montmartre. Paris received 23 million visitors in 2017, 
measured by hotel stays, with the largest numbers of foreign 
visitors coming from the United States, the UK, Germany and 
China. It was ranked as the third most visited travel 
destination in the world in 2017, after Bangkok and London.The 
football club Paris Saint-Germain and the rugby union club Stade 
Français are based in Paris. The 80,000-seat Stade de France, 
built for the 1998 FIFA World Cup, is located just 
north of Paris in the neighbouring commune of Saint-Denis. Paris 
hosts the annual French Open Grand Slam tennis tournament on 
the red clay of Roland Garros. Paris hosted the Olympic 
Games in 1900, 1924 and will host the 2024 Summer 
Olympics. The 1938 and 1998 FIFA World Cups, the 2007 
Rugby World Cup, and the 1960, 1984, and 2016 UEFA 
European Championships were also held in the city and, every 
Tbilisi (English: tə-bih-LEE-see, tə-BIL-ih-see; Georgian: თბილისი [tʰbilisi] (listen)), in some 
countries also still known by its pre-1936 international designation Tiflis 
( TIF-lis), is the capital and the largest city of 
Georgia, lying on the banks of the Kura River with 
a population of approximately 1.5 million people. Founded in the 
5th century AD by Vakhtang I of Iberia, since then 
Tbilisi served as the capital of various Georgian kingdoms and 
republics. Between 1801 and 1917, then part of the Russian 
Empire, Tbilisi was the seat of the Imperial Viceroy, governing 
both Southern and Northern Caucasus. Because of its location on 
the crossroads between Europe and Asia, and its proximity to 
the lucrative Silk Road, throughout history Tbilisi was a point 
of contention among various global powers. The city's location to 
this day ensures its position as an important transit route 
for various energy and trade projects. Tbilisi's diverse history is 
reflected in its architecture, which is a mix of medieval, 
neoclassical, Beaux Arts, Art Nouveau, Stalinist and the Modern structures. 
Historically, Tbilisi has been home to people of multiple cultural, 
ethnic, and religious backgrounds, though it is currently overwhelmingly Eastern 
Orthodox Christian. Its notable tourist destinations include cathedrals Sameba and 
Sioni, Freedom Square, Rustaveli Avenue and Agmashenebeli Avenue, medieval Narikala 
Fortress, the pseudo-Moorish Opera Theater, and the Georgian National Museum. 
Berlin (; German pronunciation: [bɛɐ̯ˈliːn]) is the capital and largest 
city of Germany by both area and population. Its 3,711,930 
(2017) inhabitants make it the second most populous city proper 
of the European Union after London. The city is one 
of Germany's 16 federal states, and it is surrounded by 
the state of Brandenburg, the capital of which, Potsdam, is 
contiguous with Berlin. The two cities are at the center 
of the Berlin/Brandenburg Metropolitan Region, which is, with 6,004,857 (2015) 
inhabitants, Germany's third-largest metropolitan region after the Rhine-Ruhr and Rhine-Main 
regions. Berlin straddles the banks of the River Spree, which 
flows into the River Havel (a tributary of the River 
Elbe) in the western borough of Spandau. Among the city's 
main topographical features are the many lakes in the western 
and southeastern boroughs, formed by the Spree, Havel, and Dahme 
rivers, the largest of which is Lake Müggelsee. Due to 
its location in the European Plain, Berlin is influenced by 
a temperate seasonal climate. About one-third of the city's area 
is composed of forests, parks, gardens, rivers, canals and lakes. 
The city lies in the Central German dialect area, the 
Berlin dialect being a variant of the Lusatian-New Marchian dialects. 
First documented in the 13th century and situated at the 
crossing of two important historic trade routes, Berlin became the 
capital of the Margraviate of Brandenburg (1417–1701), the Kingdom of 
Prussia (1701–1918), the German Empire (1871–1918), the Weimar Republic (1919–1933), 
and the Third Reich (1933–1945). Berlin in the 1920s was 
the third largest municipality in the world. After World War 
II and its subsequent occupation by the victorious countries, the 
city was divided; West Berlin became a de facto West 
German exclave, surrounded by the Berlin Wall (1961–1989) and East 
German territory. East Berlin was declared capital of East Germany, 
while Bonn became the West German capital. Following German reunification 
in 1990, Berlin once again became the capital of all 
of Germany. Berlin is a world city of culture, politics, 
media and science. Its economy is based on high-tech firms 
and the service sector, encompassing a diverse range of creative 
industries, research facilities, media corporations and convention venues. Berlin serves 
as a continental hub for air and rail traffic and 
has a highly complex public transportation network. The metropolis is 
a popular tourist destination. Significant industries also include IT, pharmaceuticals, 
biomedical engineering, clean tech, biotechnology, construction and electronics. Berlin is 
home to world-renowned universities, orchestras, museums, and entertainment venues, and 
is host to many sporting events. Its Zoological Garden is 
the most visited zoo in Europe and one of the 
most popular worldwide. With the world's oldest large-scale movie studio 
complex, Berlin is an increasingly popular location for international film 
productions. The city is well known for its festivals, diverse 
architecture, nightlife, contemporary arts and a very high quality of 
living. Since the 2000s Berlin has seen the emergence of 
Athens (; Greek: Αθήνα, Athína [aˈθina]; Ancient Greek: Ἀθῆναι, Athênai 
[a.tʰɛ̂ː.nai̯]) is the capital and largest city of Greece. Athens 
dominates the Attica region and is one of the world's 
oldest cities, with its recorded history spanning over 3,400 years 
and its earliest human presence starting somewhere between the 11th 
and 7th millennium BC.Classical Athens was a powerful city-state that 
emerged in conjunction with the seagoing development of the port 
of Piraeus, which had been a distinct city prior to 
its 5th century BC incorporation with Athens. A centre for 
the arts, learning and philosophy, home of Plato's Academy and 
Aristotle's Lyceum, it is widely referred to as the cradle 
of Western civilization and the birthplace of democracy, largely because 
of its cultural and political impact on the European continent, 
and in particular the Romans. In modern times, Athens is 
a large cosmopolitan metropolis and central to economic, financial, industrial, 
maritime, political and cultural life in Greece. In 2012, Athens 
was ranked the world's 39th richest city by purchasing power 
and the 67th most expensive in a UBS study. Athens 
is a global city and one of the biggest economic 
centres in southeastern Europe. It has a large financial sector, 
and its port Piraeus is both the largest passenger port 
in Europe, and the second largest in the world. The 
Municipality of Athens (also City of Athens) had a population 
of 664,046 (in 2011) within its administrative limits, and a 
land area of 38.96 km2 (15.04 sq mi). The urban 
area of Athens (Greater Athens and Greater Piraeus) extends beyond 
its administrative municipal city limits, with a population of 3,090,508 
(in 2011) over an area of 412 km2 (159 sq 
mi). According to Eurostat in 2011, the functional urban area 
(FUA) of Athens was the 9th most populous FUA in 
the European Union (the 6th most populous capital city of 
the EU), with a population of 3.8 million people. Athens 
is also the southernmost capital on the European mainland. The 
heritage of the classical era is still evident in the 
city, represented by ancient monuments and works of art, the 
most famous of all being the Parthenon, considered a key 
landmark of early Western civilization. The city also retains Roman 
and Byzantine monuments, as well as a smaller number of 
Ottoman monuments. Athens is home to two UNESCO World Heritage 
Sites, the Acropolis of Athens and the medieval Daphni Monastery. 
Landmarks of the modern era, dating back to the establishment 
of Athens as the capital of the independent Greek state 
in 1834, include the Hellenic Parliament and the so-called "architectural 
trilogy of Athens", consisting of the National Library of Greece, 
the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens and the Academy 
of Athens. Athens is also home to several museums and 
cultural institutions, such as the National Archeological Museum, featuring the 
world's largest collection of ancient Greek antiquities, the Acropolis Museum, 
the Museum of Cycladic Art, the Benaki Museum and the 
Byzantine and Christian Museum. Athens was the host city of 
the first modern-day Olympic Games in 1896, and 108 years 
later it welcomed home the 2004 Summer Olympics, making it 
one of only a handful of cities to have hosted 
Budapest is the capital and the most populous city of 
Hungary, and the tenth-largest city in the European Union by 
population within city limits. The city had an estimated population 
of 1,752,704 in 2016 distributed over a land area of 
about 525 square kilometres (203 square miles). Budapest is both 
a city and county, and forms the centre of the 
Budapest metropolitan area, which has an area of 7,626 square 
kilometres (2,944 square miles) and a population of 3,303,786, comprising 
33 percent of the population of Hungary.The history of the 
city began when an early Celtic settlement transformed into a 
Roman town of Aquincum, the capital of Lower Pannonia. The 
Hungarians arrived in the territory in the late 9th century. 
By the 11th century, Buda and Óbuda (Old Buda) became 
the names of their settlements on the west bank of 
the river Danube, with a formerly Slavic and then German 
settlement Pest on the opposite side. The area was pillaged 
by the Mongols in 1241. The Battle of Mohács in 
1526 was followed by nearly 150 years of Ottoman rule. 
After the reconquest of Buda in 1686, the region entered 
a new age of prosperity. Pest-Buda became a global city 
with the unification of Buda, Óbuda, and Pest on November 
17, 1873, with the name 'Budapest' given to the new 
capital. Budapest also became the co-capital of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, 
a great power that dissolved in 1918, following World War 
I. The city was the focal point of the Hungarian 
Revolution of 1848, the Battle of Budapest in 1945, and 
the Hungarian Revolution of 1956.Budapest is a Beta+ global city 
with strengths in commerce, finance, media, art, fashion, research, technology, 
education, and entertainment. It is Hungary's financial centre and the 
highest ranked Central and Eastern European city on Innovation Cities 
Top 100 index, as well ranked as the second fastest-developing 
urban economy in Europe. Budapest is host to many major 
international organization's regional offices, including the United Nations and ICDT, 
furthermore it is the headquarters of the European Institute of 
Innovation and Technology, the European Police College and the first 
foreign office of the China Investment Promotion Agency. Over 40 
colleges and universities are located in Budapest, including the Eötvös 
Loránd University, Semmelweis University and the notable Budapest University of 
Technology and Economics. Opened in 1896, the city's subway system, 
the Budapest Metro, serves 1.27 million, while the Budapest Tram 
Network serves 1.08 million passengers daily.Budapest is cited as one 
of the most beautiful cities in Europe, ranked as "the 
world's second best city" by Condé Nast Traveler, and "Europe's 
7th most idyllic place to live" by Forbes. Among Budapest's 
important museums and cultural institutions is the Museum of Fine 
Arts. Further famous cultural institutions are the Hungarian National Museum, 
House of Terror, Franz Liszt Academy of Music, Hungarian State 
Opera House and National Széchényi Library. The central area of 
the city along the Danube River is classified as a 
UNESCO World Heritage Site and has many notable monuments, including 
the Hungarian Parliament, Buda Castle, Fisherman's Bastion, Gresham Palace, Széchenyi 
Chain Bridge, Matthias Church and the Liberty Statue. Other famous 
landmarks include Andrássy Avenue, St. Stephen's Basilica, Heroes' Square, the 
Great Market Hall, the Nyugati Railway Station built by the 
Eiffel Company of Paris in 1877 and the second-oldest metro 
line in the world, the Millennium Underground Railway. The city 
also has around 80 geothermal springs, the largest thermal water 
cave system, second largest synagogue, and third largest Parliament building 
in the world. Budapest attracts 4.4 million international tourists per 
Reykjavík ( RAYK-yə-vik, -veek; Icelandic: [ˈreiːcaˌviːk] (listen)) is the capital 
and largest city of Iceland. It is located in southwestern 
Iceland, on the southern shore of Faxa Bay. Its latitude 
is 64°08' N, making it the world's northernmost capital of 
a sovereign state. With a population of around 123,300 (and 
over 216,940 in the Capital Region), it is the heart 
of Iceland's cultural, economic and governmental activity, and is a 
popular tourist destination. Reykjavík is believed to be the location 
of the first permanent settlement in Iceland, which, according to 
Ingólfr Arnarson, was established in AD 874. Until the 19th 
century, there was no urban development in the city location. 
The city was founded in 1786 as an official trading 
town and grew steadily over the following decades, as it 
transformed into a regional and later national centre of commerce, 
population, and governmental activities. It is among the cleanest, greenest, 
Dublin (; Irish: Baile Átha Cliath [ˈbˠalʲə aːhə ˈclʲiə; ˌbʲlʲaː 
ˈclʲiə]) is the capital and largest city in Ireland. Dublin 
is in the province of Leinster on the east coast 
of Ireland, at the mouth of the River Liffey and 
bordered on the south by the Wicklow Mountains. The city 
has an urban area population of 1,173,179. The population of 
the Dublin Region, as of 2016, was 1,347,359 and the 
population of the Greater Dublin area was 1,904,806.There is archaeological 
debate regarding precisely where Dublin was established by Celtic-speaking people 
in the 7th century AD. Later expanded as a Viking 
settlement, the Kingdom of Dublin became Ireland's principal city following 
the Norman invasion. The city expanded rapidly from the 17th 
century and was briefly the second largest city in the 
British Empire before the Acts of Union in 1800. Following 
the partition of Ireland in 1922, Dublin became the capital 
of the Irish Free State, later renamed Ireland. As of 
2018, Dublin was listed by the Globalization and World Cities 
Research Network (GaWC) as a global city, with a ranking 
of "Alpha -", which places it amongst the top thirty 
cities in the world. It is a historical and contemporary 
Rome (Italian: Roma [ˈroːma] (listen); Latin: Roma [ˈroːma]) is the 
capital city of Italy and a special comune (named Comune 
di Roma Capitale). Rome also serves as the capital of 
the Lazio region. With 2,868,782 residents in 1,285 km2 (496.1 
sq mi), it is also the country's most populated comune. 
It is the fourth-most populous city in the European Union 
by population within city limits. It is the centre of 
the Metropolitan City of Rome, which has a population of 
4.3 million residents. Rome is located in the central-western portion 
of the Italian Peninsula, within Lazio (Latium), along the shores 
of the Tiber. The Vatican City (the smallest country in 
the world) is an independent country inside the city boundaries 
of Rome, the only existing example of a country within 
a city: for this reason Rome has been often defined 
as capital of two states.Rome's history spans 28 centuries. While 
Roman mythology dates the founding of Rome at around 753 
BC, the site has been inhabited for much longer, making 
it one of the oldest continuously occupied sites in Europe. 
The city's early population originated from a mix of Latins, 
Etruscans, and Sabines. Eventually, the city successively became the capital 
of the Roman Kingdom, the Roman Republic and the Roman 
Empire, and is regarded as the birthplace of Western civilization 
and by some as the first ever metropolis. It was 
first called The Eternal City (Latin: Urbs Aeterna; Italian: La 
Città Eterna) by the Roman poet Tibullus in the 1st 
century BC, and the expression was also taken up by 
Ovid, Virgil, and Livy. Rome is also called the "Caput 
Mundi" (Capital of the World). After the fall of the 
Western Empire, which marked the beginning of the Middle Ages, 
Rome slowly fell under the political control of the Papacy, 
which had settled in the city since the 1st century 
AD, until in the 8th century it became the capital 
of the Papal States, which lasted until 1870. Beginning with 
the Renaissance, almost all the popes since Nicholas V (1447–1455) 
pursued over four hundred years a coherent architectural and urban 
programme aimed at making the city the artistic and cultural 
centre of the world. In this way, Rome became first 
one of the major centres of the Italian Renaissance, and 
then the birthplace of both the Baroque style and Neoclassicism. 
Famous artists, painters, sculptors and architects made Rome the centre 
of their activity, creating masterpieces throughout the city. In 1871, 
Rome became the capital of the Kingdom of Italy, which, 
in 1946, became the Italian Republic. Rome has the status 
of a global city. In 2016, Rome ranked as the 
14th-most-visited city in the world, 3rd most visited in the 
European Union, and the most popular tourist attraction in Italy. 
Its historic centre is listed by UNESCO as a World 
Heritage Site. Monuments and museums such as the Vatican Museums 
and the Colosseum are among the world's most visited tourist 
destinations with both locations receiving millions of tourists a year, 
and the city hosted the 1960 Summer Olympics. Rome is 
the seat of several specialized agencies of the United Nations, 
such as the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the World 
Food Programme (WFP) and the International Fund for Agricultural Development 
(IFAD). The city hosts the headquarters of many international business 
companies, such as Eni, Enel, TIM, Leonardo S.p.A., and national 
and international banks such as Unicredit and BNL. Its business 
district, called EUR, is the base of many companies involved 
in the oil industry, the pharmaceutical industry, and financial services. 
Rome is also an important fashion and design centre thanks 
to renowned international brands centered in the city. Rome's Cinecittà 
Studios have been the set of many Academy Award–winning movies. 
Astana (; Kazakh and Russian: Астана, translit. Astana; Kazakh pronunciation: 
[ɑstɑˈnɑ]; Russian pronunciation: [ɐstɐˈna]) is the capital city of Kazakhstan. 
It is located on the banks of the Ishim River 
in the north portion of Kazakhstan, within the Akmola Region, 
though administered separately from the region as a city with 
special status. The 2017 official estimate reported a population of 
1,029,556 within the city limits, making it the second-largest city 
in Kazakhstan, behind Almaty.Astana became the capital city of Kazakhstan 
in 1997, and since then has developed economically into one 
of the most modernized cities in Central Asia. Modern Astana 
is a planned city, like Brasília in Brazil, Canberra in 
Australia, Washington, D.C. in the United States and other planned 
capitals. After Astana became the capital of Kazakhstan, the city 
cardinally changed its shape. The master plan of Astana was 
designed by Japanese architect Kisho Kurokawa. As the seat of 
the Government of Kazakhstan, Astana is the site of the 
Parliament House, the Supreme Court, the Ak Orda Presidential Palace 
and numerous government departments and agencies. It is home to 
many futuristic buildings, hotels and skyscrapers. Astana also has extensive 
Riga (; Latvian: Rīga [ˈriːɡa] (listen), Livonian: Rīgõ) is the 
capital and largest city of Latvia. With 641,481 inhabitants (2016), 
it is also the largest city in the three Baltic 
states, home to one third of Latvia's population and one 
tenth of the three Baltic states' combined population. The city 
lies on the Gulf of Riga, at the mouth of 
the Daugava. Riga's territory covers 307.17 km2 (118.60 sq mi) 
and lies 1–10 m (3 ft 3 in–32 ft 10 
in) above sea level, on a flat and sandy plain.Riga 
was founded in 1201 and is a former Hanseatic League 
member. Riga's historical centre is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, 
noted for its Art Nouveau/Jugendstil architecture and 19th century wooden 
architecture. Riga was the European Capital of Culture during 2014, 
along with Umeå in Sweden. Riga hosted the 2006 NATO 
Summit, the Eurovision Song Contest 2003, the 2006 IIHF Men's 
World Ice Hockey Championships and the 2013 World Women's Curling 
Championship. It is home to the European Union's office of 
European Regulators for Electronic Communications (BEREC). In 2016, Riga received 
over 1.4 million visitors. It is served by Riga International 
Airport, the largest and busiest airport in the Baltic states. 
Riga is a member of Eurocities, the Union of the 
Baltic Cities (UBC) and Union of Capitals of the European 
Vaduz (; German pronunciation: [faˈdʊt͡s] or [vaˈduːt͡s]) is the capital 
of Liechtenstein and also the seat of the national parliament. 
The town, which is located along the Rhine River, has 
5,450 residents.Although Vaduz is the best-known town in the principality 
internationally, it is not the largest; neighbouring Schaan has a 
Vilnius (Lithuanian pronunciation: [ˈvʲɪlʲnʲʊs] (listen), see also other names) is 
the capital of Lithuania and its largest city, with a 
population of 574,147 as of 2018. Vilnius is in the 
southeast part of Lithuania and is the second largest city 
in the Baltic states. Vilnius is the seat of the 
main government institutions of Lithuania and the Vilnius District Municipality. 
Vilnius is classified as a Gamma global city according to 
GaWC studies, and is known for the architecture in its 
Old Town, declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1994. 
Before World War II, Vilnius was one of the largest 
Jewish centres in Europe. Its Jewish influence has led to 
it being described as the "Jerusalem of Lithuania" and Napoleon 
named it "the Jerusalem of the North" as he was 
passing through in 1812. In 2009, Vilnius was the European 
Capital of Culture, together with the Austrian city of Linz. 
Luxembourg ( (listen); Luxembourgish: Lëtzebuerg [ˈlətsəbuə̯ɕ] (listen); French: Luxembourg; German: 
Luxemburg), officially the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, is a small 
landlocked country in western Europe. It is bordered by Belgium 
to the west and north, Germany to the east, and 
France to the south. Its capital, Luxembourg City, together with 
Brussels and Strasbourg, is one of the three official capitals 
of the European Union and the seat of the European 
Court of Justice, the highest judicial authority in the EU. 
Its culture, people, and languages are highly intertwined with its 
neighbours, making it essentially a mixture of French and German 
cultures, as evident by the nation's three official languages: French, 
German, and the national language, Luxembourgish (sometimes considered a dialect 
of German). The repeated invasions by Germany, especially in World 
War II, resulted in the country's strong will for mediation 
between France and Germany and, among other things, led to 
the foundation of the European Union.With an area of 2,586 
square kilometres (998 sq mi), it is one of the 
smallest sovereign states in Europe. In 2016, Luxembourg had a 
population of 576,249, which makes it one of the least-populous 
countries in Europe, but by far the one with the 
highest population growth rate. Foreigners account for nearly half of 
Luxembourg's population. As a representative democracy with a constitutional monarch, 
it is headed by Grand Duke Henri and is the 
world's only remaining grand duchy. Luxembourg is a developed country, 
with an advanced economy and one of the world's highest 
GDP (PPP) per capita. The City of Luxembourg with its 
old quarters and fortifications was declared a UNESCO World Heritage 
Site in 1994 due to the exceptional preservation of the 
vast fortifications and the old city.The history of Luxembourg is 
considered to begin in 963, when count Siegfried I acquired 
a rocky promontory and its Roman-era fortifications known as Lucilinburhuc, 
′little castle′, and the surrounding area from the Imperial Abbey 
of St. Maximin in nearby Trier. Siegfried's descendants increased their 
territory through marriage, war and vassal relations. At the end 
of the 13th century, the Counts of Luxembourg reigned over 
a considerable territory. In 1308, Henry VII, Count of Luxembourg 
became King of the Germans and Holy Roman Emperor. The 
House of Luxembourg produced four Holy Roman Emperors at the 
high time of the Middle Ages. In 1354, Charles IV 
elevated the County to the Duchy of Luxembourg. Since Sigismund 
had no male heir, the Duchy became part of the 
Burgundian Circle and then one of the Seventeen Provinces of 
the Habsburg Netherlands. Over the centuries, the City and Fortress 
of Luxembourg, of great strategic importance situated between the Kingdom 
of France and the Habsburg territories, was gradually built up 
to be one of the most reputed fortifications in Europe. 
After belonging to both the France of Louis XIV and 
the Austria of Maria Theresia, Luxembourg became part of the 
First French Republic and Empire under Napoleon.The present-day state of 
Luxembourg first emerged at the Congress of Vienna in 1815. 
The Grand-Duchy, with its powerful fortress, became an independent state 
under the personal possession of William I of the Netherlands 
with a Prussian garrison to guard the city against another 
invasion from France. In 1839, following the turmoil of the 
Belgian Revolution, the purely Oil-speaking part of Luxembourg was ceded 
to Belgium and the Luxembourgish-speaking part (except the Arelerland, the 
area around Arlon) became what is the present state of 
Luxembourg. Luxembourg is a founding member of the European Union, 
OECD, United Nations, NATO, and Benelux. The city of Luxembourg, 
which is the country's capital and largest city, is the 
seat of several institutions and agencies of the EU. Luxembourg 
served on the United Nations Security Council for the years 
2013 and 2014, which was a first in the country's 
history. In 2016 Luxembourgish citizens had visa-free or visa-on-arrival access 
to 172 countries and territories, ranking the Luxembourgish passport 15th 
in the world, tied with countries such as Canada and 
Valletta (, Maltese pronunciation: [ˈvɐlɛ.tɐ]) is the capital city of 
Malta. Located in the south east of the island, between 
Marsamxett Harbour to the west and the Grand Harbour to 
the east, its population in 2014 was 6,444, while the 
metropolitan area around it has a population of 393,938. Valletta 
is the southernmost capital of Europe. Valletta's 16th century buildings 
were constructed by the Knights Hospitaller. The city is Baroque 
in character, with elements of Mannerist, Neo-Classical and Modern architecture, 
though the Second World War left major scars on the 
city, particularly the destruction of the Royal Opera House. The 
city was officially recognised as a World Heritage Site by 
UNESCO in 1980.The city's fortifications, consisting of bastions, curtains and 
cavaliers, along with the beauty of its Baroque palaces, gardens 
and churches, led the ruling houses of Europe to give 
Monaco ( (listen); French pronunciation: ​[mɔnako]), officially the Principality of 
Monaco (French: Principauté de Monaco), is a sovereign city-state, country 
and microstate on the French Riviera in Western Europe. France 
borders the country on three sides while the other side 
borders the Mediterranean Sea. Monaco is also located close to 
Italy, although it has no direct border. Monaco has an 
area of 2.020 km2 (0.780 sq mi), making it the 
second-smallest country in the world after the Vatican. Its population 
was about 38,400 based on the last census of 2016. 
With 19,009 inhabitants per km², it is the most densely-populated 
sovereign state in the world. Monaco has a land border 
of 5.47 km (3.40 mi), a coastline of 3.83 km 
(2.38 mi), and a width that varies between 1,700 and 
349 m (1,859 and 382 yd). The highest point in 
the country is a narrow pathway named Chemin des Révoires 
on the slopes of Mont Agel, in the Les Révoires 
Ward, which is 161 metres (528 feet) above sea level. 
Monaco's most populous Quartier is Monte Carlo and the most 
populous Ward is Larvotto/Bas Moulins. Through land reclamation, Monaco's land 
mass has expanded by 20 percent; in 2005, it had 
an area of only 1.974 km2 (0.762 sq mi). Monaco 
is known as a playground for the rich and famous, 
due to its tax laws. In 2014, it was noted 
about 30% of the population was made up of millionaires.Monaco 
is a principality governed under a form of constitutional monarchy, 
with Prince Albert II as head of state. Although Prince 
Albert II is a constitutional monarch, he wields immense political 
power. The House of Grimaldi have ruled Monaco, with brief 
interruptions, since 1297. The official language is French, but Monégasque, 
Italian, and English are widely spoken and understood. The state's 
sovereignty was officially recognized by the Franco-Monegasque Treaty of 1861, 
with Monaco becoming a full United Nations voting member in 
1993. Despite Monaco's independence and separate foreign policy, its defense 
is the responsibility of France. However, Monaco does maintain two 
small military units. Economic development was spurred in the late 
19th century with the opening of the country's first casino, 
Monte Carlo, and a railway connection to Paris. Since then, 
Monaco's mild climate, scenery, and gambling facilities have contributed to 
the principality's status as a tourist destination and recreation centre 
for the rich. In more recent years, Monaco has become 
a major banking centre and has sought to diversify its 
economy into the services sector and small, high-value-added, non-polluting industries. 
The state has no income tax, low business taxes, and 
is well known for being a tax haven. It is 
also the host of the annual street circuit motor race 
Monaco Grand Prix, one of the original Grands Prix of 
Formula One. The principality has a club football team; AS 
Monaco, who have become French champions on multiple occasions. Monaco 
is not formally a part of the European Union (EU), 
but it participates in certain EU policies, including customs and 
border controls. Through its relationship with France, Monaco uses the 
euro as its sole currency (prior to this it used 
the Monégasque franc). Monaco joined the Council of Europe in 
2004. It is a member of the Organisation Internationale de 
Podgorica ( POD-gorr-ih-tsə; Montenegrin Cyrillic: Подгорица, pronounced [pǒdɡoritsa], lit. "[area] 
below Gorica [the name of a hillock overlooking the city]") 
is the capital and largest city of Montenegro. Between 1946 
and 1992 – in the period that Montenegro formed, as 
the Socialist Republic of Montenegro, part of the Socialist Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) – the city was known as 
Titograd (Montenegrin Cyrillic: Титоград, [tîtoɡraːd]) in honour of Josip Broz 
Tito. Podgorica's favourable position at the confluence of the Ribnica 
and Morača rivers and at the meeting-point of the fertile 
Zeta Plain and Bjelopavlići Valley has encouraged settlement. The city 
is close to winter skiing centres in the north and 
to seaside resorts on the Adriatic Sea. Podgorica Municipality covers 
10.4% of Montenegro's territory and is home to 29.9% of 
the country's population. It is the nation's administrative centre and 
Amsterdam (, UK also ; Dutch: [ɑmstərˈdɑm] (listen)) is the 
capital city and most populous municipality of the Netherlands. Its 
status as the capital is mandated by the Constitution of 
the Netherlands, although it is not the seat of the 
government, which is The Hague. Amsterdam has a population of 
851,373 within the city proper, 1,351,587 in the urban area 
and 2,410,960 in the metropolitan area. The city is located 
in the province of North Holland in the west of 
the country but is not its capital, which is Haarlem. 
The metropolitan area comprises much of the northern part of 
the Randstad, one of the larger conurbations in Europe, with 
a population of approximately 8 million.Amsterdam's name derives from Amstelredamme, 
indicative of the city's origin around a dam in the 
river Amstel. Originating as a small fishing village in the 
late 12th century, Amsterdam became one of the most important 
ports in the world during the Dutch Golden Age (17th 
century), a result of its innovative developments in trade. During 
that time, the city was the leading centre for finance 
and diamonds. In the 19th and 20th centuries the city 
expanded, and many new neighbourhoods and suburbs were planned and 
built. The 17th-century canals of Amsterdam and the 19–20th century 
Defence Line of Amsterdam are on the UNESCO World Heritage 
List. Since the annexation of the municipality of Sloten in 
1921 by the municipality of Amsterdam, the oldest historic part 
of the city lies in Sloten (9th century). As the 
commercial capital of the Netherlands and one of the top 
financial centres in Europe, Amsterdam is considered an alpha world 
city by the Globalization and World Cities (GaWC) study group. 
The city is also the cultural capital of the Netherlands. 
Many large Dutch institutions have their headquarters there, and seven 
of the world's 500 largest companies, including Philips, AkzoNobel, TomTom 
and ING, are based in the city. Also, many leading 
technology companies have their European headquarters in Amsterdam, such as 
Uber, Netflix and Tesla. In 2012, Amsterdam was ranked the 
second best city to live in by the Economist Intelligence 
Unit (EIU) and 12th globally on quality of living for 
environment and infrastructure by Mercer. The city was ranked 3rd 
in innovation by Australian innovation agency 2thinknow in their Innovation 
Cities Index 2009. The Port of Amsterdam to this day 
remains the second in the country, and the fifth largest 
seaport in Europe. Famous Amsterdam residents include the diarist Anne 
Frank, artists Rembrandt van Rijn and Vincent van Gogh, and 
philosopher Baruch Spinoza. The Amsterdam Stock Exchange, the oldest stock 
exchange in the world, is located in the city centre. 
Amsterdam's main attractions include its historic canals, the Rijksmuseum, the 
Van Gogh Museum, the Stedelijk Museum, Hermitage Amsterdam, the Anne 
Frank House, the Scheepvaartmuseum, the Amsterdam Museum, the Heineken Experience, 
the Royal Palace of Amsterdam, Natura Artis Magistra, Hortus Botanicus 
Amsterdam, NEMO, the red-light district and many cannabis coffee shops. 
They draw more than 5 million international visitors annually. The 
city is also well known for its nightlife and festival 
activity; several of its nightclubs (Melkweg, Paradiso) are among the 
world's most famous. It is also one of the world's 
Oslo ( OZ-loh; Norwegian: [²ʊʂlʊ] (listen), rarely [²ʊslʊ, ˈʊʂlʊ]) is 
the capital and most populous city of Norway. It constitutes 
both a county and a municipality. Founded in the year 
1040, and established as a kaupstad or trading place in 
1048 by Harald Hardrada, the city was elevated to a 
bishopric in 1070 and a capital under Haakon V of 
Norway around 1300. Personal unions with Denmark from 1397 to 
1523 and again from 1536 to 1814 and with Sweden 
from 1814 to 1905 reduced its influence. After being destroyed 
by a fire in 1624, during the reign of King 
Christian IV, a new city was built closer to Akershus 
Fortress and named Christiania in the king's honour. It was 
established as a municipality (formannskapsdistrikt) on 1 January 1838. The 
city's name was spelled Kristiania between 1877 and 1897 by 
state and municipal authorities, respectively. In 1925 the city was 
renamed Oslo. Oslo is the economic and governmental centre of 
Norway. The city is also a hub of Norwegian trade, 
banking, industry and shipping. It is an important centre for 
maritime industries and maritime trade in Europe. The city is 
home to many companies within the maritime sector, some of 
which are among the world's largest shipping companies, shipbrokers and 
maritime insurance brokers. Oslo is a pilot city of the 
Council of Europe and the European Commission intercultural cities programme. 
Oslo is considered a global city and was ranked "Beta 
World City" in studies carried out by the Globalization and 
World Cities Study Group and Network in 2008. It was 
ranked number one in terms of quality of life among 
European large cities in the European Cities of the Future 
2012 report by fDi magazine. A survey conducted by ECA 
International in 2011 placed Oslo as the second most expensive 
city in the world for living expenses after Tokyo. In 
2013 Oslo tied with the Australian city of Melbourne as 
the fourth most expensive city in the world, according to 
the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)'s Worldwide Cost of Living study.As 
of 1 July 2017, the municipality of Oslo had a 
population of 672,061, while the population of the city's urban 
area was 942,084. The metropolitan area had an estimated population 
of 1.71 million. The population was increasing at record rates 
during the early 2000s, making it the fastest growing major 
city in Europe at the time. This growth stems for 
the most part from international immigration and related high birth 
rates, but also from intra-national migration. The immigrant population in 
the city is growing somewhat faster than the Norwegian population, 
and in the city proper this is now more than 
25% of the total if people with immigrant parents are 
Warsaw (Polish: Warszawa [varˈʂava] (listen); see also other names) is 
the capital and largest city of Poland. The metropolis stands 
on the Vistula River in east-central Poland and its population 
is officially estimated at 1.765 million residents within a greater 
metropolitan area of 3.1 million residents, which makes Warsaw the 
8th most-populous capital city in the European Union. The city 
limits cover 516.9 square kilometres (199.6 sq mi), while the 
metropolitan area covers 6,100.43 square kilometres (2,355.39 sq mi). Warsaw 
is an alpha global city, a major international tourist destination, 
and a significant cultural, political and economic hub. Its historical 
Old Town was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Once 
described as the Paris of the East, Warsaw was believed 
to be one of the most beautiful cities in the 
world until World War II. Bombed at the start of 
the German invasion in 1939, the city withstood a siege 
for which it was later awarded Poland's highest military decoration 
for heroism, the Virtuti Militari. Deportations of the Jewish population 
to concentration camps led to the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising in 
1943 and the destruction of the Ghetto after a month 
of combat. A general Warsaw Uprising between August and October 
1944 led to even greater devastation and systematic razing by 
the Germans in advance of the Vistula–Oder Offensive. Warsaw gained 
the new title of Phoenix City because of its extensive 
history and complete reconstruction after World War II, which had 
left over 85% of its buildings in ruins.Warsaw is one 
of Europe's most dynamic metropolitan cities. In 2012 the Economist 
Intelligence Unit ranked Warsaw as the 32nd most liveable city 
in the world. In 2017 the city came 4th in 
the "Business-friendly" category and 8th in "Human capital and life 
style". It was also ranked as one of the most 
liveable cities in Central and Eastern Europe. The city is 
a significant centre of research and development, Business process outsourcing, 
Information technology outsourcing, as well as of the Polish media 
industry. The Warsaw Stock Exchange is the largest and most 
important in Central and Eastern Europe. Frontex, the European Union 
agency for external border security as well as ODIHR, one 
of the principal institutions of the Organization for Security and 
Cooperation in Europe have their headquarters in Warsaw. Together with 
Frankfurt, London and Paris, Warsaw is also one of the 
cities with the highest number of skyscrapers in the European 
Union.The city is the seat of the Polish Academy of 
Sciences, Warsaw National Philharmonic Orchestra, University of Warsaw, the Warsaw 
Polytechnic, the National Museum, the Great Theatre—National Opera, the largest 
of its kind in the world, and the Zachęta National 
Gallery of Art. The picturesque Old Town of Warsaw, which 
represents examples of nearly every European architectural style and historical 
period, was listed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO 
in 1980. Other main architectural attractions include the Castle Square 
with the Royal Castle and the iconic King Sigismund's Column, 
the Wilanów Palace, the Łazienki Palace, St. John's Cathedral, Main 
Market Square, palaces, churches and mansions all displaying a richness 
of colour and detail. Warsaw is renowned for its bars, 
restaurants, art galleries and, most notably, several dozen museums and 
outspread greenery, with around a quarter of the city's area 
Lisbon (; Portuguese: Lisboa, IPA: [liʒˈboɐ] (listen)) is the capital 
and the largest city of Portugal, with an estimated population 
of 505,526 within its administrative limits in an area of 
100.05 km2. Its urban area extends beyond the city's administrative 
limits with a population of around 2.8 million people, being 
the 11th-most populous urban area in the European Union. About 
3 million people live in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area (which 
represents approximately 27% of the country's population). It is mainland 
Europe's westernmost capital city and the only one along the 
Atlantic coast. Lisbon lies in the western Iberian Peninsula on 
the Atlantic Ocean and the River Tagus. The westernmost areas 
of its metro area form the westernmost point of Continental 
Europe, which is known as Cabo da Roca, located in 
the Sintra Mountains Lisbon is recognised as an alpha-level global 
city by the Globalization and World Cities (GaWC) Study Group 
because of its importance in finance, commerce, media, entertainment, arts, 
international trade, education and tourism. Lisbon is the only Portuguese 
city besides Porto to be recognised as a global city. 
It is one of the major economic centres on the 
continent, with a growing financial sector and one of the 
largest container ports on Europe's Atlantic coast. Additionally, Humberto Delgado 
Airport served 26.7 million passengers in 2017, being the busiest 
airport in Portugal, the 3rd busiest in the Iberian Peninsula 
and the 20th busiest in Europe, and the motorway network 
and the high-speed rail system of Alfa Pendular links the 
main cities of Portugal (such as Braga, Porto and Coimbra) 
to Lisbon. The city is the 9th-most-visited city in Southern 
Europe, after Rome, Istanbul, Barcelona, Milan, Venice, Madrid, Florence and 
Athens, with 3,320,300 tourists in 2017. The Lisbon region contributes 
with a higher GDP PPP per capita than any other 
region in Portugal. Its GDP amounts to 96.3 billion USD 
and thus $32,434 per capita. The city occupies the 40th 
place of highest gross earnings in the world. Most of 
the headquarters of multinational corporations in Portugal are located in 
the Lisbon area. It is also the political centre of 
the country, as its seat of Government and residence of 
the Head of State. Lisbon is one of the oldest 
cities in the world, and one of the oldest in 
Western Europe, predating other modern European capitals such as London, 
Paris, and Rome by centuries. Julius Caesar made it a 
municipium called Felicitas Julia, adding to the name Olissipo. Ruled 
by a series of Germanic tribes from the 5th century, 
it was captured by the Moors in the 8th century. 
In 1147, the Crusaders under Afonso Henriques reconquered the city 
and since then it has been a major political, economic 
and cultural centre of Portugal. Unlike most capital cities, Lisbon's 
status as the capital of Portugal has never been granted 
or confirmed officially – by statute or in written form. 
Its position as the capital has formed through constitutional convention, 
making its position as de facto capital a part of 
Bucharest (; Romanian: București [bukuˈreʃtʲ] (listen)) is the capital and 
largest city of Romania, as well as its cultural, industrial, 
and financial centre. It is located in the southeast of 
the country, at 44°25′57″N 26°06′14″E, on the banks of the 
Dâmbovița River, less than 60 km (37.3 mi) north of 
the Danube River and the Bulgarian border. Bucharest was first 
mentioned in documents in 1459. It became the capital of 
Romania in 1862 and is the centre of Romanian media, 
culture, and art. Its architecture is a mix of historical 
(neo-classical), interbellum (Bauhaus and art deco), communist-era and modern. In 
the period between the two World Wars, the city's elegant 
architecture and the sophistication of its elite earned Bucharest the 
nickname of "Little Paris" (Micul Paris). Although buildings and districts 
in the historic city centre were heavily damaged or destroyed 
by war, earthquakes, and above all Nicolae Ceaușescu's program of 
systematization, many survived. In recent years, the city has been 
experiencing an economic and cultural boom. In 2016, the historical 
city centre was listed as "endangered" by the World Monuments 
Watch.According to the 2011 census, 1,883,425 inhabitants live within the 
city limits, a decrease from the 2002 census. Adding the 
satellite towns around the urban area, the proposed metropolitan area 
of Bucharest would have a population of 2.27 million people. 
According to Eurostat, Bucharest has a functional urban area of 
2,412,530 residents (as of 2015). Bucharest is the sixth-largest city 
in the European Union by population within city limits, after 
London, Berlin, Madrid, Rome, and Paris. Economically, Bucharest is the 
most prosperous city in Romania and is one of the 
main industrial centres and transportation hubs of Eastern Europe. The 
city has big convention facilities, educational institutes, cultural venues, traditional 
"shopping arcades", and recreational areas. The city proper is administratively 
known as the "Municipality of Bucharest" (Municipiul București), and has 
the same administrative level as that of a national county, 
being further subdivided into six sectors, each governed by a 
Moscow (; Russian: Москва́, tr. Moskvá, IPA: [mɐˈskva] (listen)) is 
the capital and most populous city of Russia, with 13.2 
million residents within the city limits and 17 million within 
the urban area. Moscow is one of Russia's federal cities. 
Moscow is a major political, economic, cultural, and scientific centre 
of Russia and Eastern Europe, as well as the largest 
city (both by population and by area) entirely on the 
European continent. By broader definitions Moscow is among the world's 
largest cities, being the 14th largest metro area, the 18th 
largest agglomeration, the 14th largest urban area, and the 11th 
largest by population within city limits worldwide. According to Forbes 
2013, Moscow has been ranked as the ninth most expensive 
city in the world by Mercer and has one of 
the world's largest urban economies, being ranked as an alpha 
global city according to the Globalization and World Cities Research 
Network, and is also one of the fastest growing tourist 
destinations in the world according to the MasterCard Global Destination 
Cities Index. Moscow is the northernmost and coldest megacity and 
metropolis on Earth. It is home to the Ostankino Tower, 
the tallest free standing structure in Europe; the Federation Tower, 
the second-tallest skyscraper in Europe; and the Moscow International Business 
Center. By its territorial expansion on July 1 2012 southwest 
into the Moscow Oblast, the area of the capital more 
than doubled, going from 1,091 to 2,511 square kilometers (421 
to 970 sq mi), resulting in Moscow becoming the largest 
city on the European continent by area; it also gained 
an additional population of 233,000 people.Moscow is situated on the 
Moskva River in the Central Federal District of European Russia, 
making it Europe's most populated inland city. The city is 
well known for its architecture, particularly its historic buildings such 
as Saint Basil's Cathedral with its colourful architectural style. With 
over 40 percent of its territory covered by greenery, it 
is one of the greenest capitals and major cities in 
Europe and the world, having the largest forest in an 
urban area within its borders—more than any other major city—even 
before its expansion in 2012. The city has served as 
the capital of a progression of states, from the medieval 
Grand Duchy of Moscow and the subsequent Tsardom of Russia 
to the Russian Empire to the Soviet Union and the 
contemporary Russian Federation. Moscow is the seat of power of 
the Government of Russia, being the site of the Moscow 
Kremlin, a medieval city-fortress that is today the residence for 
work of the President of Russia. The Moscow Kremlin and 
Red Square are also one of several World Heritage Sites 
in the city. Both chambers of the Russian parliament (the 
State Duma and the Federation Council) also sit in the 
city. Moscow is considered the centre of Russian culture, having 
served as the home of Russian artists, scientists and sports 
figures and because of the presence of museums, academic and 
political institutions and theatres. The city is served by a 
transit network, which includes four international airports, nine railway terminals, 
numerous trams, a monorail system and one of the deepest 
underground rapid transit systems in the world, the Moscow Metro, 
the fourth-largest in the world and largest outside Asia in 
terms of passenger numbers, and the busiest in Europe. It 
is recognised as one of the city's landmarks due to 
the rich architecture of its 200 stations.Moscow has acquired a 
number of epithets, most referring to its size and preeminent 
status within the nation: The Third Rome (Третий Рим), the 
Whitestone One (Белокаменная), the First Throne (Первопрестольная), the Forty Soroks 
(Сорок Сороков) ("sorok" meaning both "forty, a great many" and 
"a district or parish" in Old Russian). Moscow is also 
one of the twelve Hero Cities. The demonym for a 
Moscow resident is "москвич" (moskvich) for male or "москвичка" (moskvichka) 
San Marino ( (listen), Italian: [sam maˈriːno]), officially the Republic 
of San Marino (Italian: Repubblica di San Marino), also known 
as the Most Serene Republic of San Marino (Italian: Serenissima 
Repubblica di San Marino), is an enclaved microstate surrounded by 
Italy, situated on the Italian Peninsula on the northeastern side 
of the Apennine Mountains. Its size is just over 61 
km2 (24 sq mi), with a population of 33,562. Its 
capital is the City of San Marino and its largest 
settlement is Dogana in the municipality of Serravalle. San Marino 
has the smallest population of all the members of the 
Council of Europe. With Italian being the official language, along 
with strong financial and ethno-cultural connections, San Marino has strong 
ties to its much larger neighbour; it is located close 
to the riviera of Rimini, one of Italy's main coastal 
resort areas. The country derives its name literally from Saint 
Marinus, a stonemason originating from the Roman colony on the 
island of Rab, in modern-day Croatia. In AD 257, Marinus, 
according to legend, participated in the reconstruction of Rimini's city 
walls after their destruction by Liburnian pirates. Marinus then went 
on to found an independent monastic community on Monte Titano 
in AD 301; thus, San Marino lays claim to be 
the oldest extant sovereign state as well as the oldest 
constitutional republic.San Marino is governed by the Constitution of San 
Marino (Leges Statutae Republicae Sancti Marini), a series of six 
books written in Latin in the late 16th century, that 
dictate the country’s political system, among other matters. The country 
is considered to have the earliest written governing documents, or 
constitution, still in effect.The country's economy mainly relies on finance, 
industry, services and tourism. It is among one of the 
wealthiest countries in the world in terms of GDP (per 
capita), with a figure comparable to the most developed European 
regions. San Marino is considered to have a highly stable 
economy, with one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe, 
no national debt and a budget surplus. It is the 
Belgrade ( BEL-grayd; Serbian: Beograd / Београд, meaning "white city", 
Serbian pronunciation: [beǒɡrad] (listen); names in other languages) is the 
capital and largest city of Serbia. It is located at 
the confluence of the Sava and Danube rivers, where the 
Pannonian Plain meets the Balkans. The urban area of the 
City of Belgrade has a population of 1.23 million, while 
nearly 1.7 million people live within its administrative limits.One of 
the most important prehistoric cultures of Europe, the Vinča culture, 
evolved within the Belgrade area in the 6th millennium BC. 
In antiquity, Thraco-Dacians inhabited the region and after 279 BC 
Celts conquered the city, naming it Singidūn. It was conquered 
by the Romans during the reign of Augustus, and awarded 
city rights in the mid-2nd century. It was settled by 
the Slavs in the 520s, and changed hands several times 
between the Byzantine Empire, Frankish Empire, Bulgarian Empire and Kingdom 
of Hungary before it became the capital of Serbian king 
Stephen Dragutin (1282–1316). In 1521, Belgrade was conquered by the 
Ottoman Empire and became the seat of the Sanjak of 
Smederevo. It frequently passed from Ottoman to Habsburg rule, which 
saw the destruction of most of the city during the 
Austro-Ottoman wars. Belgrade was again named the capital of Serbia 
in 1841. Northern Belgrade remained the southernmost Habsburg post until 
1918, when the city was reunited. As a strategic location, 
the city was battled over in 115 wars and razed 
44 times. Belgrade was the capital of Yugoslavia from its 
creation in 1918 to its dissolution in 2006. Belgrade has 
a special administrative status within Serbia and it is one 
of five statistical regions of Serbia. Its metropolitan territory is 
divided into 17 municipalities, each with its own local council. 
The city of Belgrade covers 3.6% of Serbia's territory, and 
around 24% of the country's population lives within its administrative 
Bratislava (; Slovak pronunciation: [ˈbratislaʋa] (listen), German: Preßburg or Pressburg 
IPA: [ˈpʁɛsbʊɐ̯k], Hungarian: Pozsony) is the capital of Slovakia. With 
a population of about 450,000, it is one of the 
smaller capitals of Europe but still the country's largest city. 
The greater metropolitan area is home to more than 650,000 
people. Bratislava is in southwestern Slovakia, occupying both banks of 
the River Danube and the left bank of the River 
Morava. Bordering Austria and Hungary, it is the only national 
capital that borders two sovereign states.The city's history has been 
strongly influenced by people of different nations and religions, namely 
(in alphabetical order) Austrians, Bulgarians, Croats, Czechs, Germans, Hungarians, Jews, 
Serbs and Slovaks. It was the coronation site and legislative 
center of the Kingdom of Hungary from 1536 to 1783, 
and has been home to many Slovak, Hungarian and German 
historical figures. Bratislava is the political, cultural and economic centre 
of Slovakia. It is the seat of the Slovak president, 
the parliament and the Slovak Executive. It has several universities, 
and many museums, theatres, galleries and other cultural and educational 
institutions. Many of Slovakia's large businesses and financial institutions have 
Ljubljana (Slovene: [ljuˈbljàːna] (listen), locally also [luˈblàːna]; also known by 
other, historical names) is the capital and largest city of 
Slovenia. It has been the cultural, educational, economic, political, and 
administrative center of independent Slovenia since 1991. During antiquity, a 
Roman city called Emona stood in the area. Ljubljana itself 
was first mentioned in the first half of the 12th 
century. Situated at the middle of a trade route between 
the northern Adriatic Sea and the Danube region, it was 
the historical capital of Carniola, one of the Slovene-inhabited parts 
of the Habsburg Monarchy. It was under Habsburg rule from 
the Middle Ages until the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire 
in 1918. After World War II, Ljubljana became the capital 
of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, part of the Socialist 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It retained this status until Slovenia 
became independent in 1991 and Ljubljana became capital of the 
Madrid (, Spanish: [maˈðɾið]) is the capital of Spain and 
the largest municipality in both the Community of Madrid and 
Spain as a whole. The city has almost 3.2 million 
inhabitants and a metropolitan area population of approximately 6.5 million. 
It is the third-largest city in the European Union (EU), 
smaller than only London and Berlin, and its monocentric metropolitan 
area is the third-largest in the EU, smaller only than 
those of London and Paris. The municipality covers 604.3 km2 
(233.3 sq mi).Madrid lies on the River Manzanares in the 
centre of both the country and the Community of Madrid 
(which comprises the city of Madrid, its conurbation and extended 
suburbs and villages); this community is bordered by the autonomous 
communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha. As the 
capital city of Spain, seat of government, and residence of 
the Spanish monarch, Madrid is also the political, economic and 
cultural centre of the country. The current mayor is Manuela 
Carmena from the party Ahora Madrid. The Madrid urban agglomeration 
has the third-largest GDP in the European Union and its 
influences in politics, education, entertainment, environment, media, fashion, science, culture, 
and the arts all contribute to its status as one 
of the world's major global cities. Madrid is home to 
two world-famous football clubs, Real Madrid and Atlético de Madrid. 
Due to its economic output, high standard of living, and 
market size, Madrid is considered the major financial centre of 
Southern Europe and the Iberian Peninsula; it hosts the head 
offices of the vast majority of major Spanish companies, such 
as Telefónica, IAG or Repsol. Madrid is the 10th most 
liveable city in the world according to Monocle magazine, in 
its 2017 index.Madrid houses the headquarters of the World Tourism 
Organization (UNWTO), belonging to the United Nations Organization (UN), the 
Ibero-American General Secretariat (SEGIB), the Organization of Ibero-American States (OEI), 
and the Public Interest Oversight Board (PIOB). It also hosts 
major international regulators and promoters of the Spanish language: the 
Standing Committee of the Association of Spanish Language Academies, headquarters 
of the Royal Spanish Academy (RAE), the Cervantes Institute and 
the Foundation of Urgent Spanish (Fundéu BBVA). Madrid organises fairs 
such as FITUR, ARCO, SIMO TCI and the Cibeles Madrid 
Fashion Week.While Madrid possesses modern infrastructure, it has preserved the 
look and feel of many of its historic neighbourhoods and 
streets. Its landmarks include the Royal Palace of Madrid; the 
Royal Theatre with its restored 1850 Opera House; the Buen 
Retiro Park, founded in 1631; the 19th-century National Library building 
(founded in 1712) containing some of Spain's historical archives; a 
large number of national museums, and the Golden Triangle of 
Art, located along the Paseo del Prado and comprising three 
art museums: Prado Museum, the Reina Sofía Museum, a museum 
of modern art, and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, which completes the 
shortcomings of the other two museums. Cibeles Palace and Fountain 
have become one of the monument symbols of the city. 
Stockholm is the capital of Sweden and the most populous 
city in the Nordic countries; 960,031 people live in the 
municipality, approximately 1.5 million in the urban area, and 2.3 
million in the metropolitan area. The city stretches across fourteen 
islands where Lake Mälaren flows into the Baltic Sea. Just 
outside the city and along the coast is the island 
chain of the Stockholm archipelago. The area has been settled 
since the Stone Age, in the 6th millennium BC, and 
was founded as a city in 1252 by Swedish statesman 
Birger Jarl. It is also the capital of Stockholm County. 
Stockholm is the only capital in the world with a 
national urban park.Stockholm is the cultural, media, political, and economic 
centre of Sweden. The Stockholm region alone accounts for over 
a third of the country's GDP, and is among the 
top 10 regions in Europe by GDP per capita. It 
is an important global city, and the main centre for 
corporate headquarters in the Nordic region. The city is home 
to some of Europe's top ranking universities, such as the 
Stockholm School of Economics, Karolinska Institute and Royal Institute of 
Technology (KTH). It hosts the annual Nobel Prize ceremonies and 
banquet at the Stockholm Concert Hall and Stockholm City Hall. 
One of the city's most prized museums, the Vasa Museum, 
is the most visited non-art museum in Scandinavia. The Stockholm 
metro, opened in 1950, is well known for the decor 
of its stations; it has been called the longest art 
gallery in the world. Sweden's national football arena is located 
north of the city centre, in Solna. Ericsson Globe, the 
national indoor arena, is in the southern part of the 
city. The city was the host of the 1912 Summer 
Olympics, and hosted the equestrian portion of the 1956 Summer 
Olympics otherwise held in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Stockholm is the 
seat of the Swedish government and most of its agencies, 
including the highest courts in the judiciary, and the official 
residencies of the Swedish monarch and the Prime Minister. The 
government has its seat in the Rosenbad building, the Riksdag 
(Swedish parliament) is seated in the Parliament House, and the 
Prime Minister's residence is adjacent at Sager House. Stockholm Palace 
is the official residence and principal workplace of the Swedish 
monarch, while Drottningholm Palace, a World Heritage Site on the 
outskirts of Stockholm, serves as the Royal Family's private residence. 
Bern or Berne (German: Bern [bɛrn] (listen), Alemannic German: Bärn 
[b̥æːrn], French: Berne [bɛʁn], Italian: Berna [ˈbɛrna], Romansh: Berna [ˈbɛrnɐ] 
(listen)) is the de facto capital of Switzerland, referred to 
by the Swiss as their (e.g. in German) Bundesstadt, or 
"federal city". With a population of 142,656 (March 2018), Bern 
is the fifth-most populous city in Switzerland. The Bern agglomeration, 
which includes 36 municipalities, had a population of 406,900 in 
2014. The metropolitan area had a population of 660,000 in 
2000. Bern is also the capital of the canton of 
Bern, the second-most populous of Switzerland's cantons. The official language 
in Bern is (the Swiss variety of Standard) German, but 
the most-spoken language is an Alemannic Swiss German dialect, Bernese 
German. In 1983, the historic old town (in German: Altstadt) 
in the centre of Bern became a UNESCO World Heritage 
Ankara (; Turkish pronunciation: [ˈaŋkaɾa] (listen)), historically known as Ancyra 
and Angora, is the capital of the Republic of Turkey. 
With a population of 4,587,558 in the urban center (2014) 
and 5,150,072 in its province (2015), it is Turkey's second 
largest city after Istanbul (the former imperial capital), having outranked 
İzmir in the 20th century. On 23 April 1920 the 
Grand National Assembly of Turkey was established in Ankara, which 
became the headquarters of Atatürk and the Turkish National Movement 
during the Turkish War of Independence. Ankara became the new 
Turkish capital upon the establishment of the Republic on 29 
October 1923, succeeding in this role the former Turkish capital 
Istanbul (Constantinople) following the fall of the Ottoman Empire. The 
government is a prominent employer, but Ankara is also an 
important commercial and industrial city, located at the center of 
Turkey's road and railway networks. The city gave its name 
to the Angora wool shorn from Angora rabbits, the long-haired 
Angora goat (the source of mohair), and the Angora cat. 
The area is also known for its pears, honey and 
muscat grapes. Although situated in one of the driest places 
of Turkey and surrounded mostly by steppe vegetation except for 
the forested areas on the southern periphery, Ankara can be 
considered a green city in terms of green areas per 
inhabitant, at 72 square metres (775 square feet) per head.Ankara 
is a very old city with various Hittite, Phrygian, Hellenistic, 
Roman, Byzantine, and Ottoman archaeological sites. The historical center of 
town is a rocky hill rising 150 m (500 ft) 
over the left bank of the Ankara Çayı, a tributary 
of the Sakarya River, the classical Sangarius. The hill remains 
crowned by the ruins of the old citadel. Although few 
of its outworks have survived, there are well-preserved examples of 
Roman and Ottoman architecture throughout the city, the most remarkable 
being the 20 BC Temple of Augustus and Rome that 
boasts the Monumentum Ancyranum, the inscription recording the Res Gestae 
Kiev ( KEE-ef, -ev) or Kyiv (Ukrainian: Київ, translit. Kyiv 
[ˈkɪjiu̯] (listen); Russian: Киев, translit. Kiyev [ˈkʲi(j)ɪf]; Old East Slavic: 
Кыѥвъ, translit. Kyjev) is the capital and largest city of 
Ukraine, located in the north central part of the country 
on the Dnieper. The population in July 2015 was 2,887,974 
(though higher estimated numbers have been cited in the press), 
making Kiev the 7th most populous city in Europe.Kiev is 
an important industrial, scientific, educational, and cultural centre of Eastern 
Europe. It is home to many high-tech industries, higher education 
institutions, and world-famous historical landmarks. The city has an extensive 
infrastructure and highly developed system of public transport, including the 
Kiev Metro. The city's name is said to derive from 
the name of Kyi, one of its four legendary founders 
(see Name, below). During its history, Kiev, one of the 
oldest cities in Eastern Europe, passed through several stages of 
great prominence and relative obscurity. The city probably existed as 
a commercial centre as early as the 5th century. A 
Slavic settlement on the great trade route between Scandinavia and 
Constantinople, Kiev was a tributary of the Khazars, until seized 
by the Varangians (Vikings) in the mid-9th century. Under Varangian 
rule, the city became a capital of the Kievan Rus', 
the first East Slavic state. Completely destroyed during the Mongol 
invasion in 1240, the city lost most of its influence 
for the centuries to come. It was a provincial capital 
of marginal importance in the outskirts of the territories controlled 
by its powerful neighbours; first the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, 
followed by Poland and Russia.The city prospered again during the 
Russian Empire's Industrial Revolution in the late 19th century. In 
1917, after the Ukrainian National Republic declared independence from the 
Russian Empire, Kiev became its capital. From 1921 onwards Kiev 
was a city of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, which 
was proclaimed by the Red Army, and, from 1934, Kiev 
was its capital. During World War II, the city again 
suffered significant damage, but quickly recovered in the post-war years, 
remaining the third largest city of the Soviet Union. Following 
the collapse of the Soviet Union and Ukrainian independence in 
1991, Kiev remained the capital of Ukraine and experienced a 
steady migration influx of ethnic Ukrainians from other regions of 
the country. During the country's transformation to a market economy 
and electoral democracy, Kiev has continued to be Ukraine's largest 
and richest city. Kiev's armament-dependent industrial output fell after the 
Soviet collapse, adversely affecting science and technology. But new sectors 
of the economy such as services and finance facilitated Kiev's 
growth in salaries and investment, as well as providing continuous 
funding for the development of housing and urban infrastructure. Kiev 
emerged as the most pro-Western region of Ukraine where parties 
advocating tighter integration with the European Union dominate during elections. 
London ( (listen) LUN-dən) is the capital and largest city 
of both the United Kingdom and England. Standing on the 
River Thames in southeastern England, 50 miles (80 km) upstream 
from its estuary with the North Sea, London has been 
a major settlement for two millennia. Londinium was founded by 
the Romans. The City of London, London's ancient core − 
an area of just 1.12 square miles (2.9 km2) and 
colloquially known as the Square Mile − retains its medieval 
boundaries. The City of Westminster is also an Inner London 
borough holding city status. Greater London is governed by the 
Mayor of London and the London Assembly. London is a 
often considered the leading global city exerting a considerable impact 
upon the arts, commerce, education, entertainment, fashion, finance, healthcare, media, 
professional services, research and development, tourism and transportation. London, the 
fourth fastest-growing city, is 26 out of 300 major cities 
for economic performance. It is one of the largest financial 
centres and has either the fifth or sixth largest metropolitan 
area GDP. It is the most-visited city as measured by 
international arrivals and has the busiest city airport system as 
measured by passenger traffic. It is the leading investment destination, 
hosting more international retailers and ultra high-net-worth individuals than any 
other city. London's universities form the largest concentration of higher 
education institutes in Europe. In 2012, London became the first 
city to have hosted three modern Summer Olympic Games.London has 
a diverse range of people and cultures, and more than 
300 languages are spoken in the region. Its estimated mid-2016 
municipal population (corresponding to Greater London) was 8,787,892, the most 
populous of any city in the European Union and accounting 
for 13.4% of the UK population. London's urban area is 
the second most populous in the EU, after Paris, with 
9,787,426 inhabitants at the 2011 census. The population within the 
London commuter belt is the most populous in the EU 
with 14,040,163 inhabitants in 2016. London was the world’s most 
populous city from c. 1831 to 1925. London contains four 
World Heritage Sites: the Tower of London; Kew Gardens; the 
site comprising the Palace of Westminster, Westminster Abbey, and St 
Margaret's Church; and the historic settlement in Greenwich where the 
Royal Observatory, Greenwich defines the Prime Meridian, 0° longitude, and 
Greenwich Mean Time. Other landmarks include Buckingham Palace, the London 
Eye, Piccadilly Circus, St Paul's Cathedral, Tower Bridge, Trafalgar Square 
and The Shard. London has numerous museums, galleries, libraries and 
sporting events. These include the British Museum, National Gallery, Natural 
History Museum, Tate Modern, British Library and West End theatres. 
The London Underground is the oldest underground railway network in 
Vatican City ( (listen)), officially Vatican City State (Italian: Stato 
della Città del Vaticano; Latin: Status Civitatis Vaticanae), is an 
independent city-state enclaved within Rome, Italy. Established with the Lateran 
Treaty (1929), it is distinct from yet under "full ownership, 
exclusive dominion, and sovereign authority and jurisdiction" of the Holy 
See (Latin: Sancta Sedes). With an area of 44 hectares 
(110 acres), and a population of about 1,000, it is 
the smallest state in the world by both area and 
population. The Vatican City is an ecclesiastical or sacerdotal-monarchical state 
(a type of theocracy) ruled by the pope who is, 
religiously speaking, the bishop of Rome and head of the 
Catholic Church. The highest state functionaries are all Catholic clergy 
of various national origins. Since the return of the popes 
from Avignon in 1377, they have generally resided at the 
Apostolic Palace within what is now Vatican City, although at 
times residing instead in the Quirinal Palace in Rome or 
elsewhere. The Holy See dates back to early Christianity, and 
is the primate episcopal see of the Catholic Church, with 
1.3 billion Catholics around the world distributed in the Latin 
Church and 23 Eastern Catholic Churches. The independent Vatican City-state, 
on the other hand, came into existence in 11 February 
1929 by the Lateran Treaty between the Holy See and 
Italy, which spoke of it as a new creation, not 
as a vestige of the much larger Papal States (756–1870), 
which had previously encompassed much of central Italy. Within the 
Vatican City are religious and cultural sites such as St. 
Peter's Basilica, the Sistine Chapel and the Vatican Museums. They 
feature some of the world's most famous paintings and sculptures. 
The unique economy of Vatican City is supported financially by 
the sale of postage stamps and souvenirs, fees for admission 
Jamaica ( (listen)) is an island country situated in the 
Caribbean Sea. Spanning 10,990 square kilometres (4,240 sq mi) in 
area, it is the third-largest island of the Greater Antilles 
and the fourth-largest island country in the Caribbean. Jamaica lies 
about 145 kilometres (90 mi) south of Cuba, and 191 
kilometres (119 mi) west of Hispaniola (the island containing the 
countries of Haiti and the Dominican Republic). Previously inhabited by 
the indigenous Arawak and Taíno peoples, the island came under 
Spanish rule following the arrival of Christopher Columbus in 1494. 
Many of the indigenous people died of disease, and the 
Spanish transplanted African slaves to Jamaica as labourers. The island 
remained a possession of Spain until 1655, when England (later 
Great Britain) conquered it and renamed it Jamaica. Under British 
colonial rule Jamaica became a leading sugar exporter, with its 
plantation economy highly dependent on African slaves. The British fully 
emancipated all slaves in 1838, and many freedmen chose to 
have subsistence farms rather than to work on plantations. Beginning 
in the 1840s, the British utilized Chinese and Indian indentured 
labour to work on plantations. The island achieved independence from 
the United Kingdom on 6 August 1962. With 2.9 million 
people, Jamaica is the third-most populous Anglophone country in the 
Americas (after the United States and Canada), and the fourth-most 
populous country in the Caribbean. Kingston is the country's capital 
and largest city, with a population of 937,700. Jamaicans mainly 
have African ancestry, with significant European, Chinese, Indian, Lebanese, and 
mixed-race minorities. Due to a high rate of emigration for 
work since the 1960s, Jamaica has a large diaspora around 
the world, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom, and the 
United States. Jamaica is a Commonwealth realm, with Queen Elizabeth 
II as its monarch and head of state. Her appointed 
representative in the country is the Governor-General of Jamaica, an 
office held by Sir Patrick Allen since 2009. Andrew Holness 
has served as the head of government and Prime Minister 
of Jamaica from March 2016. Jamaica is a parliamentary constitutional 
monarchy with legislative power vested in the bicameral Parliament of 
Jamaica, consisting of an appointed Senate and a directly elected 
Japan (Japanese: 日本; Nippon [ɲippoɴ] or Nihon [ɲihoɴ]; formally 日本国 
Nippon-koku or Nihon-koku, lit. "State of Japan") is an island 
country in East Asia. Located in the Pacific Ocean, it 
lies off the eastern coast of the Asian continent and 
stretches from the Sea of Okhotsk in the north to 
the East China Sea and the Philippine Sea in the 
south. The kanji that make up Japan's name mean "sun 
origin", and it is often called the "Land of the 
Rising Sun". Japan is a stratovolcanic archipelago consisting of about 
6,852 islands. The four largest are Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu, and 
Shikoku, which make up about ninety-seven percent of Japan's land 
area and often are referred to as home islands. The 
country is divided into 47 prefectures in eight regions, with 
Hokkaido being the northernmost prefecture and Okinawa being the southernmost 
one. The population of 127 million is the world's tenth 
largest. Japanese make up 98.5% of Japan's total population. About 
13.8 million people live in Tokyo, the capital of Japan. 
The Greater Tokyo Area is the most populous metropolitan area 
in the world with over 38 million people.Archaeological research indicates 
that Japan was inhabited as early as the Upper Paleolithic 
period. The first written mention of Japan is in Chinese 
history texts from the 1st century AD. Influence from other 
regions, mainly China, followed by periods of isolation, particularly from 
Western Europe, has characterized Japan's history. From the 12th century 
until 1868, Japan was ruled by successive feudal military shōguns 
who ruled in the name of the Emperor. Japan entered 
into a long period of isolation in the early 17th 
century, which was ended in 1853 when a United States 
fleet pressured Japan to open to the West. After nearly 
two decades of internal conflict and insurrection, the Imperial Court 
regained its political power in 1868 through the help of 
several clans from Chōshū and Satsuma – and the Empire 
of Japan was established. In the late 19th and early 
20th centuries, victories in the First Sino-Japanese War, the Russo-Japanese 
War and World War I allowed Japan to expand its 
empire during a period of increasing militarism. The Second Sino-Japanese 
War of 1937 expanded into part of World War II 
in 1941, which came to an end in 1945 following 
the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the Japanese 
surrender. Since adopting its revised constitution on May 3, 1947, 
during the occupation by the SCAP, the sovereign state of 
Japan has maintained a unitary parliamentary constitutional monarchy with an 
Emperor and an elected legislature called the National Diet. Japan 
is a member of the ASEAN Plus mechanism, UN, the 
OECD, the G7, the G8 and the G20 – and 
is considered a great power. The country has the world's 
third-largest economy by nominal GDP and the world's fourth-largest economy 
by purchasing power parity. It is also the world's fourth-largest 
exporter and fourth-largest importer. The country benefits from a highly 
skilled workforce and is among the most highly educated countries 
in the world, with one of the highest percentages of 
its citizens holding a tertiary education degree. Although Japan has 
officially renounced its right to declare war, it maintains a 
modern military with the world's eighth-largest military budget, used for 
self-defense and peacekeeping roles. It ranked as the world's fourth 
most-powerful military in 2015. Japan is a highly developed country 
with a very high standard of living and Human Development 
Index. Its population enjoys the highest life expectancy and the 
third lowest infant mortality rate in the world, but is 
experiencing issues due to an aging population and low birthrate. 
Japan is renowned for its historical and extensive cinema, influential 
music industry, anime, video gaming, rich cuisine and its major 
Kyrgyzstan ( KUR-gih-STAHN; Kyrgyz: Кыргызстан Kyrgyzstan (Kyrgyz pronunciation: [qɯrʁɯsˈstɑn]); Russian: 
Киргизия [kʲɪrˈɡʲizʲɪjə] or Кыргызстан [kɨrɡɨˈstan]), officially the Kyrgyz Republic (Kyrgyz: 
Кыргыз Республикасы, translit. Qırğız Respublikası; Russian: Кыргызская Республика, tr. Kyrgyzskaya 
Respublika; Uzbek: Qirg'iz Respublikasi), and also known as Kirghizia, is 
a sovereign state in Central Asia. Kyrgyzstan is a landlocked 
country with mountainous terrain. It is bordered by Kazakhstan to 
the north, Uzbekistan to the west and southwest, Tajikistan to 
the southwest and China to the east. Its capital and 
largest city is Bishkek. Kyrgyzstan's recorded history spans over 2,000 
years, encompassing a variety of cultures and empires. Although geographically 
isolated by its highly mountainous terrain, which has helped preserve 
its ancient culture, Kyrgyzstan has been at the crossroads of 
several great civilizations as part of the Silk Road and 
other commercial and cultural routes. Though long inhabited by a 
succession of independent tribes and clans, Kyrgyzstan has periodically fallen 
under foreign domination and attained sovereignty as a nation-state only 
after the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991. Since 
independence, Kyrgyzstan has officially been a unitary parliamentary republic, although 
it continues to endure ethnic conflicts, revolts, economic troubles, transitional 
governments and political conflict. Kyrgyzstan is a member of the 
Commonwealth of Independent States, the Eurasian Economic Union, the Collective 
Security Treaty Organization, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, the Organisation of 
Islamic Cooperation, the Turkic Council, the Türksoy community and the 
United Nations. Ethnic Kyrgyz make up the majority of the 
country's 6 million people, followed by significant minorities of Uzbeks 
and Russians. Kyrgyz is closely related to other Turkic languages, 
although Russian remains widely spoken and is an official language, 
a legacy of a century of Russification. The majority of 
the population are non-denominational Muslims. In addition to its Turkic 
origins, Kyrgyz culture bears elements of Persian, Mongolian, and Russian 
Myanmar (English pronunciation below; Burmese: [mjəmà]), officially the Republic of 
the Union of Myanmar and also known as Burma, is 
a country in Southeast Asia. Myanmar is bordered by India 
and Bangladesh to its west, Thailand and Laos to its 
east and China to its north and northeast. To its 
south, about one third of Myanmar's total perimeter of 5,876 
km (3,651 mi) forms an uninterrupted coastline of 1,930 km 
(1,200 mi) along the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman 
Sea. The country's 2014 census counted the population to be 
51 million people. As of 2017, the population is about 
54 million. Myanmar is 676,578 square kilometres (261,228 square miles) 
in size. Its capital city is Naypyidaw, and its largest 
city and former capital is Yangon (Rangoon). Myanmar has been 
a member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) 
since 1997. Early civilisations in Myanmar included the Tibeto-Burman-speaking Pyu 
city-states in Upper Burma and the Mon kingdoms in Lower 
Burma. In the 9th century, the Bamar people entered the 
upper Irrawaddy valley and, following the establishment of the Pagan 
Kingdom in the 1050s, the Burmese language, culture and Theravada 
Buddhism slowly became dominant in the country. The Pagan Kingdom 
fell due to the Mongol invasions and several warring states 
emerged. In the 16th century, reunified by the Taungoo dynasty, 
the country was for a brief period the largest empire 
in the history of Mainland Southeast Asia. The early 19th 
century Konbaung dynasty ruled over an area that included modern 
Myanmar and briefly controlled Manipur and Assam as well. The 
British took over the administration of Myanmar after three Anglo-Burmese 
Wars in the 19th century and the country became a 
British colony. Myanmar was granted independence in 1948, as a 
democratic nation. Following a coup d'état in 1962, it became 
a military dictatorship under the Burma Socialist Programme Party. For 
most of its independent years, the country has been engrossed 
in rampant ethnic strife and its myriad ethnic groups have 
been involved in one of the world's longest-running ongoing civil 
wars. During this time, the United Nations and several other 
organisations have reported consistent and systematic human rights violations in 
the country. In 2011, the military junta was officially dissolved 
following a 2010 general election, and a nominally civilian government 
was installed. This, along with the release of Aung San 
Suu Kyi and political prisoners, has improved the country's human 
rights record and foreign relations, and has led to the 
easing of trade and other economic sanctions. There is, however, 
continuing criticism of the government's treatment of ethnic minorities, its 
response to the ethnic insurgency, and religious clashes. In the 
landmark 2015 election, Aung San Suu Kyi's party won a 
majority in both houses. However, the Burmese military remains a 
powerful force in politics. Myanmar is a country rich in 
jade and gems, oil, natural gas and other mineral resources. 
In 2013, its GDP (nominal) stood at US$56.7 billion and 
its GDP (PPP) at US$221.5 billion. The income gap in 
Myanmar is among the widest in the world, as a 
large proportion of the economy is controlled by supporters of 
the former military government. As of 2016, Myanmar ranks 145 
out of 188 countries in human development, according to the 
Norway (Norwegian: Norge (Bokmål) or Noreg (Nynorsk); Northern Sami: Norga), 
officially the Kingdom of Norway, is a Nordic country in 
Northwestern Europe whose core territory comprises the western and northernmost 
portion of the Scandinavian Peninsula; the remote island of Jan 
Mayen and the archipelago of Svalbard are also part of 
the Kingdom of Norway. The Antarctic Peter I Island and 
the sub-Antarctic Bouvet Island are dependent territories and thus not 
considered part of the kingdom. Norway also lays claim to 
a section of Antarctica known as Queen Maud Land. Norway 
has a total area of 385,252 square kilometres (148,747 sq 
mi) and a population of 5,312,300 (as of August 2018). 
The country shares a long eastern border with Sweden (1,619 
km or 1,006 mi long). Norway is bordered by Finland 
and Russia to the north-east, and the Skagerrak strait to 
the south, with Denmark on the other side. Norway has 
an extensive coastline, facing the North Atlantic Ocean and the 
Barents Sea. King Harald V of the Dano-German House of 
Glücksburg is the current King of Norway. Erna Solberg became 
prime minister in 2013 and was reelected in September 2017. 
Erna Solberg replaced Jens Stoltenberg who was the prime minister 
between 2000 and 2001 and 2005–2013. A unitary sovereign state 
with a constitutional monarchy, Norway divides state power between the 
Parliament, the cabinet and the Supreme Court, as determined by 
the 1814 Constitution. The kingdom was established as a merger 
of a large number of petty kingdoms. By the traditional 
count from 872, the kingdom has existed continuously for 1,145 
years, and the list of Norwegian monarchs includes over sixty 
kings and earls. From 1537 to 1814, Norway was a 
part of the Kingdom of Denmark-Norway, and from 1814 to 
1905, it was in a personal union with the Kingdom 
of Sweden. Norway was neutral during the first World War. 
Norway remained neutral until April 1940 when the country was 
invaded and occupied by Germany until the end of World 
War II. Norway has both administrative and political subdivisions on 
two levels: counties and municipalities. The Sámi people have a 
certain amount of self-determination and influence over traditional territories through 
the Sámi Parliament and the Finnmark Act. Norway maintains close 
ties with both the European Union and the United States. 
Norway is a founding member of the United Nations, NATO, 
the European Free Trade Association, the Council of Europe, the 
Antarctic Treaty, and the Nordic Council; a member of the 
European Economic Area, the WTO, and the OECD; and a 
part of the Schengen Area. Norway maintains the Nordic welfare 
model with universal health care and a comprehensive social security 
system, and its values are rooted in egalitarian ideals. The 
Norwegian state has large ownership positions in key industrial sectors, 
having extensive reserves of petroleum, natural gas, minerals, lumber, seafood, 
and fresh water. The petroleum industry accounts for around a 
quarter of the country's gross domestic product (GDP). On a 
per-capita basis, Norway is the world's largest producer of oil 
and natural gas outside of the Middle East.The country has 
the fourth-highest per capita income in the world on the 
World Bank and IMF lists. On the CIA's GDP (PPP) 
per capita list (2015 estimate) which includes autonomous territories and 
regions, Norway ranks as number eleven. It has the world's 
largest sovereign wealth fund, with a value of USD 1 
trillion. Norway has had the highest Human Development Index ranking 
in the world since 2009, a position also held previously 
between 2001 and 2006. It also has the highest inequality-adjusted 
ranking. Norway ranked first on the World Happiness Report for 
2017 and currently ranks first on the OECD Better Life 
Index, the Index of Public Integrity, and the Democracy Index. 
Norway has one of the lowest crime rates in the 
Portugal (Portuguese: [puɾtuˈɣal]), officially the Portuguese Republic (Portuguese: República Portuguesa 
[ʁɛˈpuβlikɐ puɾtuˈɣezɐ]), is a country located mostly on the Iberian 
Peninsula in southwestern Europe. It is the westernmost sovereign state 
of mainland Europe. It is bordered to the west and 
south by the Atlantic Ocean and to the north and 
east by Spain. Its territory also includes the Atlantic archipelagos 
of the Azores and Madeira, both autonomous regions with their 
own regional governments. Portugal is the oldest state on the 
Iberian Peninsula and one of the oldest in Europe, its 
territory having been continuously settled, invaded and fought over since 
prehistoric times. The Pre-Celts, Celts, Carthaginians and Romans were followed 
by the invasions of the Visigoths and Suebi Germanic peoples. 
Portugal as a country was established during the Christian Reconquista 
against the Moors who had invaded the Iberian Peninsula in 
711 AD. Despite attempts at independence since its foundation as 
a county in 868, only after the Battle of São 
Mamede in 1128, where Portuguese forces led by Afonso Henriques 
defeated forces led by his mother, Theresa of Portugal, the 
County of Portugal affirmed its sovereignty and Henriques styled himself 
Prince of Portugal. He would later be proclaimed King of 
Portugal at the Battle of Ourique in 1139 and was 
recognised as such, by neighbouring kingdoms, on the Treaty of 
Zamora, in 1143.In the 15th and 16th centuries, Portugal established 
the first global empire, becoming one of the world's major 
economic, political and military powers. During this period, today referred 
to as the Age of Discovery, Portuguese explorers pioneered maritime 
exploration, notably under royal patronage of Prince Henry the Navigator 
and King John II, with such notable voyages as Bartolomeu 
Dias' sailing beyond the Cape of Good Hope (Cabo da 
Boa Esperança) (1488), Vasco da Gama's discovery of the sea 
route to India (1497–98) and the European discovery of Brazil 
(1500). During this time Portugal monopolized the spice trade, and 
the empire expanded with military campaigns in Asia. However, events 
such as the destruction of Lisbon in a 1755 earthquake, 
the Industrial Revolution, the Seven Years' War, the country's occupation 
during the Napoleonic Wars, and the independence of Brazil (1822), 
erased to an extent Portugal's prior opulence.After the 1910 revolution 
deposed the monarchy, the democratic but unstable Portuguese First Republic 
was established, later being superseded by the Estado Novo right-wing 
authoritarian regime. Democracy was restored after the Carnation Revolution in 
1974, ending the Portuguese Colonial War. Shortly after, independence was 
granted to almost all its overseas territories. The handover of 
Macau to China in 1999 marked the end of what 
can be considered the longest-lived colonial empire.Portugal has left a 
profound cultural and architectural influence across the globe, a legacy 
of 300 million Portuguese speakers, and many Portuguese-based creoles. A 
member of the United Nations and the European Union, Portugal 
was also one of the founding members of NATO, the 
eurozone, the OECD, and the Community of Portuguese Language Countries. 
Portugal is a developed country with a high-income advanced economy 
and high living standards. It is the 4th most peaceful 
country in the world, and its state is the 15th 
most stable one, maintained under a unitary semi-presidential republican form 
of government. Additionally, the country ranks highly in terms of 
democracy (10th), social progress (20th), prosperity (25th), press freedom (14th), 
moral freedom (3rd), LGBTI rights (7th in Europe), ease of 
Poland (Polish: Polska [ˈpɔlska] (listen)), officially the Republic of Poland 
(Polish: Rzeczpospolita Polska [ʐɛt͡ʂpɔˈspɔlita ˈpɔlska] (listen)), is a country located 
in Central Europe. It is divided into 16 administrative subdivisions, 
covering an area of 312,696 square kilometres (120,733 sq mi), 
and has a largely temperate seasonal climate. With a population 
of approximately 38.5 million people, Poland is the sixth most 
populous member state of the European Union. Poland's capital and 
largest metropolis is Warsaw. Other major cities include Kraków, Łódź, 
Wrocław, Poznań, Gdańsk and Szczecin. The establishment of the Polish 
state can be traced back to A.D. 966, when Mieszko 
I, ruler of the realm coextensive with the territory of 
present-day Poland, converted to Christianity. The Kingdom of Poland was 
founded in 1025, and in 1569 it cemented its longstanding 
political association with the Grand Duchy of Lithuania by signing 
the Union of Lublin. This union formed the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, 
one of the largest (about 1 million km2) and most 
populous countries of 16th- and 17th-century Europe, with a uniquely 
liberal political system which adopted Europe's first written national constitution, 
the Constitution of 3 May 1791. More than a century 
after the Partitions of Poland at the end of the 
18th century, Poland regained its independence in 1918 with the 
Treaty of Versailles. In September 1939, World War II started 
with the invasion of Poland by Germany, followed by the 
Soviet Union invading Poland in accordance with the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. 
More than six million Polish citizens perished in the war. 
In 1947, the Polish People's Republic was established as a 
satellite state under Soviet influence. In the aftermath of the 
Revolutions of 1989, most notably through the emergence of the 
Solidarity movement, the sovereign state of Poland reestablished itself as 
a presidential democratic republic. Poland is a developed market and 
regional power. It has the eighth largest and one of 
the most dynamic economies in the European Union, simultaneously achieving 
a very high rank on the Human Development Index. Additionally, 
the Polish Stock Exchange in Warsaw is the largest and 
most important in Central Europe. Poland is a developed country, 
which maintains a high-income economy along with very high standards 
of living, life quality, safety, education and economic freedom. Poland 
has a developed school educational system. The country provides free 
university education, state-funded social security and a universal health care 
system for all citizens. Poland has 15 UNESCO World Heritage 
Sites, 14 of which are cultural. Poland is a member 
state of the European Union, the Schengen Area, the United 
Nations, NATO, the OECD, the Three Seas Initiative, and the 
Peru ( (listen); Spanish: Perú [peˈɾu]; Quechua: Piruw Republika [pʰɪɾʊw]; 
Aymara: Piruw Suyu [pɪɾʊw]), officially the Republic of Peru (Spanish: 
República del Perú ), is a country in western South 
America. It is bordered in the north by Ecuador and 
Colombia, in the east by Brazil, in the southeast by 
Bolivia, in the south by Chile, and in the west 
by the Pacific Ocean. Peru is an extremely biodiverse country 
with habitats ranging from the arid plains of the Pacific 
coastal region in the west to the peaks of the 
Andes mountains vertically extending from the north to the southeast 
of the country to the tropical Amazon Basin rainforest in 
the east with the Amazon river.Peruvian territory was home to 
several ancient cultures, ranging from the Norte Chico civilization in 
the 32nd century BC, the oldest civilization in the Americas, 
to the Inca Empire, the largest and most sophisticated state 
in pre-Columbian America. The Spanish Empire conquered the region in 
the 16th century and established a Viceroyalty that encompassed most 
of its South American colonies, with its capital in Lima. 
Peru formally proclaimed independence in 1821, and following the military 
campaigns of José de San Martín and Simón Bolívar, and 
the decisive battle of Ayacucho, Peru secured independence in 1824. 
In the ensuing years, the country enjoyed relative economic and 
political stability, which ended shortly before the War of the 
Pacific with Chile. Throughout the 20th century, Peru endured armed 
territorial disputes, coups, social unrest, and internal conflicts, as well 
as periods of stability and economic upswing. Alberto Fujimori was 
elected to the presidency in 1990; his government was credited 
with economically stabilizing Peru and successfully ending the Shining Path 
insurgency, though he was widely accused of human rights violations 
and suppression of political dissent. Fujimori left the presidency in 
2000 and was charged with human rights violations and imprisoned 
until his pardon by President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski in 2017. 
Even after the president's regime, Fujimori's followers, noted as Fujimoristas 
have caused political turmoil for any opposing faction in power, 
even causing Pedro Pablo Kuczynski to resign in March 2018. 
The sovereign state of Peru is a representative democratic republic 
divided into 25 regions. It is classified as an emerging 
market with a high level of human development and an 
upper middle income level with a poverty rate around 19 
percent. It is one of the region's most prosperous economies 
with an average growth rate of 5.9% and it has 
one of the world's fastest industrial growth rates at an 
average of 9.6%. Its main economic activities include mining, manufacturing, 
agriculture and fishing; along with other growing sectors such as 
telecommunications and biotechnology. The country forms part of The Pacific 
Pumas, a political and economic grouping of countries along Latin 
America's Pacific coast that share common trends of positive growth, 
stable macroeconomic foundations, improved governance and an openness to global 
integration. Peru ranks high in social freedom and it has 
the third lowest homicide rate in South America; it is 
an active member of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, the Pacific 
Alliance, the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the World Trade Organization; and 
is considered as a middle power.Peru has a multiethnic population 
of 32 million, which includes Amerindians, Europeans, Africans and Asians. 
The main spoken language is Spanish, although a significant number 
of Peruvians speak Quechua, Aymara or other native languages. This 
mixture of cultural traditions has resulted in a wide diversity 
of expressions in fields such as art, cuisine, literature, and 
Paraguay (; Spanish pronunciation: [paɾaˈɣwaj]; Guarani: Paraguái, [paɾaˈɰwaj]), officially the 
Republic of Paraguay (Spanish: República del Paraguay; Guarani: Tetã Paraguái), 
is one of only two landlocked countries in South America 
(the other is Bolivia). It is bordered by Argentina to 
the south and southwest, Brazil to the east and northeast, 
and Bolivia to the northwest. Paraguay lies on both banks 
of the Paraguay River, which runs through the center of 
the country from north to south. Due to its central 
location in South America, it is sometimes referred to as 
Corazón de Sudamérica ("Heart of South America").Spanish conquistadores arrived in 
1524 after navigating northwards from the Río de la Plata 
to the Paraná River, and finally up the Paraguay River. 
In 1537, they established the city of Asunción, which was 
the first capital of the Governorate of Paraguay and Río 
de la Plata. Paraguay was the epicenter of the Jesuit 
Missions, where the Guaraní people were educated and introduced to 
Christianity and European culture under the direction of the Society 
of Jesus in Jesuit reductions, mainly during the 17th century. 
However, after the expulsion of the Jesuits from Spanish territories 
in 1767, Paraguay increasingly became a peripheral colony, with few 
urban centers and settlers. Following independence from Spain at the 
beginning of the 19th century, Paraguay was ruled by a 
series of authoritarian governments who generally implemented nationalist, isolationist and 
protectionist policies. This period ended with the disastrous Paraguayan War, 
during which Paraguay lost at least 50% of its prewar 
population and around 25 - 33% of its territory to 
the Triple Alliance of Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay. In the 
20th century, Paraguay faced another major international conflict – the 
Chaco War – against Bolivia, from which the Paraguayans emerged 
victorious. Afterwards, the country entered a period of military dictatorships, 
ending with the 35 year regime of Alfredo Stroessner that 
lasted until he was toppled in 1989 by an internal 
military coup. This marked the beginning of the "democratic era" 
of Paraguay. With around 7 million inhabitants, Paraguay is a 
founding member of Mercosur, an original member of the United 
Nations, the Organization of American States, the Non-Aligned Movement and 
the Lima Group. Also, the city of Luque, in Asuncion's 
Metropolitan Area, is the seat of the CONMEBOL. The Guarani 
culture is very influential and more than 90% of the 
people speak different forms of the Guarani language. Paraguayans are 
known for being a very happy and easy-living people and 
many times the country topped the "world's happiest place" charts 
because of the "positive experiences" lived and expressed by the 
Panama ( (listen) PAN-ə-mah; Spanish: Panamá [panaˈma]), officially the Republic 
of Panama (Spanish: República de Panamá), is a country in 
Central America, bordered by Costa Rica to the west, Colombia 
to the southeast, the Caribbean Sea to the north and 
the Pacific Ocean to the south. The capital and largest 
city is Panama City, whose metropolitan area is home to 
nearly half the country's 4 million people.Panama was inhabited by 
indigenous tribes before Spanish colonists arrived in the 16th century. 
It broke away from Spain in 1821 and joined the 
Republic of Gran Colombia, a union of Nueva Granada, Ecuador, 
and Venezuela. After Gran Colombia dissolved in 1831, Panama and 
Nueva Granada eventually became the Republic of Colombia. With the 
backing of the United States, Panama seceded from Colombia in 
1903, allowing the construction of the Panama Canal to be 
completed by the US Army Corps of Engineers between 1904 
and 1914. The 1977 Torrijos–Carter Treaties led to the transfer 
of the Canal from the United States to Panama on 
December 31, 1999.Revenue from canal tolls continues to represent a 
significant portion of Panama's GDP, although commerce, banking, and tourism 
are major and growing sectors. In 2015 Panama ranked 60th 
in the world in terms of the Human Development Index. 
Since 2010, Panama has been the second-most competitive economy in 
Latin America, according to the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness 
Index. Covering around 40 percent of its land area, Panama's 
jungles are home to an abundance of tropical plants and 
animals – some of them found nowhere else on the 
planet. Panama is a founding member of the United Nations 
and other international organizations such as OAS, LAIA, G77, WHO 
Pakistan (Urdu: پاکِستان‬‎), officially the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (Urdu: 
اِسلامی جمہوریہ پاکِستان‬‎), is a country in South Asia. It 
is the sixth-most populous country with a population exceeding 212,742,631 
people. In area, it is the 33rd-largest country, spanning 881,913 
square kilometres (340,509 square miles). Pakistan has a 1,046-kilometre (650-mile) 
coastline along the Arabian Sea and Gulf of Oman in 
the south and is bordered by India to the east, 
Afghanistan to the west, Iran to the southwest, and China 
in the far northeast. It is separated narrowly from Tajikistan 
by Afghanistan's Wakhan Corridor in the northwest, and also shares 
a maritime border with Oman. The territory that now constitutes 
Pakistan was the site of several ancient cultures and intertwined 
with the history of the broader Indian subcontinent. The ancient 
history involves the Neolithic site of Mehrgarh and the Bronze 
Age Indus Valley Civilisation, and was later home to kingdoms 
ruled by people of different faiths and cultures, including Hindus, 
Indo-Greeks, Muslims, Turco-Mongols, Afghans and Sikhs. The area has been 
ruled by numerous empires and dynasties, including the Persian Achaemenid 
Empire, Alexander III of Macedon, the Seleucid Empire, the Indian 
Maurya Empire, the Gupta Empire, the Arab Umayyad Caliphate, the 
Delhi Sultanate, the Mongol Empire, the Mughal Empire, the Afghan 
Durrani Empire, the Sikh Empire (partially) and, most recently, the 
British Empire. Pakistan is the only country to have been 
created in the name of Islam. It is an ethnically 
and linguistically diverse country, with a similarly diverse geography and 
wildlife. Initially a dominion, Pakistan adopted a constitution in 1956, 
becoming an Islamic republic. An ethnic civil war in 1971 
resulted in the secession of East Pakistan as the new 
country of Bangladesh. In 1973 Pakistan adopted a new constitution 
which stipulated that all laws are to conform to the 
injunctions of Islam as laid down in the Quran and 
Sunnah.A regional and middle power, Pakistan has the sixth-largest standing 
armed forces in the world and is also a nuclear 
power as well as a declared nuclear-weapons state, the second 
in South Asia and the only nation in the Muslim 
world to have that status. Pakistan has a semi-industrialised economy 
with a well-integrated agriculture sector and a growing services sector. 
It is ranked among the emerging and growth-leading economies of 
the world, and is backed by one of the world's 
largest and fastest-growing middle class. Pakistan's political history since independence 
has been characterized by periods of military rule, political instability 
and conflicts with India. The country continues to face challenging 
problems, including overpopulation, terrorism, poverty, illiteracy, and corruption. Pakistan is 
a member of the UN, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, the 
OIC, the Commonwealth of Nations, the SAARC and the Islamic 
The Federal Republic of Nigeria, commonly referred to as Nigeria 
( (listen)), is a federal republic in West Africa, bordering 
Niger in the north, Chad in the northeast, Cameroon in 
the southeast, and Benin in the west. Its coast in 
the south is located on the Gulf of Guinea in 
the Atlantic Ocean. The federation comprises 36 states and 1 
Federal Capital Territory, where the capital, Abuja is located. Nigeria 
is officially a democratic secular country.Nigeria has been home to 
a number of kingdoms and tribal states over the millennia. 
The modern state originated from British colonial rule beginning in 
the 19th century, and took its present territorial shape with 
the merging of the Southern Nigeria Protectorate and Northern Nigeria 
Protectorate in 1914. The British set up administrative and legal 
structures whilst practicing indirect rule through traditional chiefdoms. Nigeria became 
a formally independent federation in 1960. It experienced a civil 
war from 1967 to 1970. It thereafter alternated between democratically 
elected civilian governments and military dictatorships until it achieved a 
stable democracy in 1999, with the 2011 presidential election considered 
the first to be reasonably free and fair.Nigeria is often 
referred to as the "Giant of Africa", owing to its 
large population and economy. With 186 million inhabitants, Nigeria is 
the most populous country in Africa and the seventh most 
populous country in the world. Nigeria has the third-largest youth 
population in the world, after India and China, with more 
than 90 million of its population under age 18. The 
country is viewed as a multinational state as it is 
inhabited by 250 ethnic groups, of which the three largest 
are the Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba; these ethnic groups speak 
over 250 different languages and are identified with a wide 
variety of cultures. The official language is English. Nigeria is 
divided roughly in half between Christians, who live mostly in 
the southern part of the country, and Muslims, who live 
mostly in the north. A minority of the population practice 
religions indigenous to Nigeria, such as those native to the 
Igbo and Yoruba ethnicities. As of 2015, Nigeria is the 
world's 20th largest economy, worth more than $500 billion and 
$1 trillion in terms of nominal GDP and purchasing power 
parity respectively. It overtook South Africa to become Africa's largest 
economy in 2014. The 2013 debt-to-GDP ratio was 11 percent. 
Nigeria is considered to be an emerging market by the 
World Bank; it has been identified as a regional power 
on the African continent, a middle power in international affairs, 
and has also been identified as an emerging global power. 
However, it currently has a "low" Human Development Index, ranking 
152nd in the world. Nigeria is a member of the 
MINT group of countries, which are widely seen as the 
globe's next "BRIC-like" economies. It is also listed among the 
"Next Eleven" economies set to become among the biggest in 
the world. Nigeria is a founding member of the African 
Union and a member of many other international organizations, including 
Niger or the Niger ( or (listen); French: [niʒɛʁ]), officially 
the Republic of the Niger, is a landlocked country in 
West Africa named after the Niger River. Niger is bordered 
by Libya to the northeast, Chad to the east, Nigeria 
to the south, Benin to the southwest, Burkina Faso and 
Mali to the west, and Algeria to the northwest. Niger 
covers a land area of almost 1,270,000 km2 (490,000 sq 
mi), making it the largest country in West Africa. Over 
80% of its land area lies in the Sahara Desert. 
The country's predominantly Islamic population of about 21 million live 
mostly in clusters in the far south and west of 
the country. The capital city is Niamey, located in Niger’s 
southwest corner. Niger is a developing country, which consistently ranks 
near the bottom in the United Nations' Human Development Index 
(HDI); it was ranked 187th of 188 countries for 2015 
and 189th out of 189 countries in the 2018 report. 
Much of the non-desert portions of the country are threatened 
by periodic drought and desertification. The economy is concentrated around 
subsistence, with some export agriculture in the more fertile south, 
and export of raw materials, especially uranium ore. Niger faces 
serious challenges to development due to its landlocked position, desert 
terrain, inefficient agriculture, high fertility rates without birth control, and 
the resulting overpopulation, the poor educational level and the poverty 
of its people, the lack of infrastructure, the poor health 
care, and the environmental degradation. Nigerien society reflects a diversity 
drawn from the long independent histories of its several ethnic 
groups and regions and their relatively short period living in 
a single state. Historically, what is now Niger has been 
on the fringes of several large states. Since independence, Nigeriens 
have lived under five constitutions and three periods of military 
rule. After the military coup in 2010, Niger became a 
democratic, multi-party state. A majority of the population lives in 
rural areas, and have little access to advanced education. As 
of 2015, 71.3% of Niger’s population cannot read, one of 
Nicaragua ( (listen); Spanish: [nikaˈɾaɣwa]), officially the Republic of Nicaragua 
(Spanish: República de Nicaragua ), is the largest country in 
the Central American isthmus, bordered by Honduras to the northwest, 
the Caribbean to the east, Costa Rica to the south, 
and the Pacific Ocean to the southwest. Managua is the 
country's capital and largest city and is also the third-largest 
city in Central America, behind Tegucigalpa and Guatemala City. The 
multi-ethnic population of six million includes people of indigenous, European, 
African, and Asian heritage. The main language is Spanish. Native 
tribes on the Mosquito Coast speak their own languages and 
English. Originally inhabited by various indigenous cultures since ancient times, 
the Spanish Empire conquered the region in the 16th century. 
Nicaragua gained independence from Spain in 1821. The Mosquito Coast 
followed a different historical path, with the English colonizing it 
in the 17th century and later coming under the British 
rule, as well as some minor Spanish interludes in the 
19th century. It became an autonomous territory of Nicaragua in 
1860 and the northernmost part of it was later transferred 
to Honduras in 1960. Since its independence, Nicaragua has undergone 
periods of political unrest, dictatorship, occupation and fiscal crisis, leading 
to the Nicaraguan Revolution of the 1960s and 1970s and 
the Contra War of the 1980s. The mixture of cultural 
traditions has generated substantial diversity in folklore, cuisine, music, and 
literature, particularly the latter given the literary contributions of Nicaraguan 
poets and writers, such as Rubén Darío. Known as the 
"land of lakes and volcanoes", Nicaragua is also home to 
the second-largest rainforest of the Americas. The country has set 
a goal of 90% renewable energy by the year 2020. 
The biological diversity, warm tropical climate and active volcanoes make 
The Netherlands (Dutch: Nederland [ˈneːdərlɑnt] (listen)) is a country located 
mainly in Northwestern Europe. Together with three island territories in 
the Caribbean (Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba), it forms a 
constituent country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The European 
portion of the Netherlands consists of twelve provinces and borders 
Germany to the east, Belgium to the south, and the 
North Sea to the northwest, sharing maritime borders in the 
North Sea with Belgium, the United Kingdom, and Germany. The 
five largest cities in the Netherlands are Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The 
Hague, Utrecht (forming the Randstad megalopolis) and Eindhoven (leading the 
Brabantse Stedenrij). Amsterdam is the country's capital, while The Hague 
holds the seat of the States General, Cabinet and Supreme 
Court. The Port of Rotterdam is the largest port in 
Europe and the world's largest outside Asia.'Netherlands' literally means 'lower 
countries', referring to its low land and flat geography, with 
only about 50% of its land exceeding 1 metre (3 
ft 3 in) above sea level. Most of the areas 
below sea level are the result of land reclamation beginning 
in the 16th century, resulting in large areas known as 
polders that amount to nearly 17% of the country's territory. 
With a population of 17.25 million living within a total 
area of roughly 41,500 square kilometres (16,000 sq mi), of 
which the land area is 33,700 square kilometres (13,000 sq 
mi), the Netherlands is one of the most densely populated 
countries in the world. Nevertheless, it is the world's second-largest 
exporter of food and agricultural products after the United States, 
owing to its fertile soil, mild climate, and intensive agriculture.The 
Netherlands was the third country in the world to have 
representative government, and has been administered as a parliamentary constitutional 
monarchy since 1848, with a unitary structure. A policy of 
pillarisation historically segregated society and institutions between Catholics, Calvinists and 
socialists, but Dutch society is today one of the most 
cosmopolitan in the world. The country has a long history 
of social tolerance and is generally regarded as a liberal 
country, having legalised abortion, prostitution, and euthanasia, while maintaining a 
progressive drug policy. The Netherlands abolished the death penalty in 
1870, allowed women's suffrage in 1917, and became the world's 
first country to legalise same-sex marriage in 2001. The Netherlands 
is a founding member of the EU, Eurozone, G10, NATO, 
OECD, and WTO, as well as a part of the 
Schengen Area and the trilateral Benelux Union. It hosts several 
intergovernmental organizations and international courts, many of which are centered 
in The Hague, which is consequently dubbed 'the world's legal 
capital.' Its mixed-market advanced economy had the thirteenth-highest per capita 
income globally. One of the world's most prosperous countries, the 
Netherlands ranks among the highest in international indexes of press 
freedom, economic freedom, human development, and quality of life. Its 
strong performance is owed in large part to a generous 
welfare state that provides universal healthcare, public education and infrastructure, 
and a range of social benefits. It is also known 
for its polder model, the country's leading socioeconomic model based 
Montenegro ( (listen); Serbian and/or Montenegrin: Црна Гора / Crna 
Gora [tsr̩̂ːnaː ɡɔ̌ra]) is a country in Southeastern Europe on 
the Adriatic Sea. It borders Bosnia and Herzegovina to the 
north; Serbia and Kosovo to the east; Albania to the 
south and Croatia to the west. Montenegro has an area 
of 13,812 square kilometres and a population of 640,000, most 
of whom are Orthodox Christians. Its capital Podgorica is one 
of the twenty-three municipalities in the country. Cetinje is designated 
as the Old Royal Capital. Slavs settled in the Balkans 
during the 6th and 7th centuries. According to De Administrando 
Imperio, there existed three Serbian polities on the territory of 
Montenegro: Duklja, roughly corresponding to the southern half; Travunia, the 
west; and Serbia (or Rascia), the north. Duklja emerged as 
an independent state during the 11th century, initially held by 
the Vojislavljević dynasty, later to be incorporated into the state 
of the Nemanjić dynasty. In the 9th century, three Serbian 
principalities were located on the territory of modern-day Montenegro: Duklja, 
roughly corresponding to the southern half; Travunia, the west; and 
Rascia, the north. In 1042, archon Stefan Vojislav led a 
revolt that resulted in the independence of Duklja from the 
Byzantine Empire and the establishment of the Vojislavljević dynasty. The 
independent Principality of Zeta emerged in the 14th and 15th 
centuries, ruled by the House of Balšić between 1356 and 
1421, and by the House of Crnojević between 1431 and 
1498, when the name Montenegro started being used for the 
country. After falling under Ottoman rule, Montenegro regained de facto 
independence in 1697 under the rule of the House of 
Petrović-Njegoš, first under the theocratic rule of prince-bishops, before being 
transformed into a secular principality in 1852. Montenegro's de jure 
independence was recognised by the Great Powers at the Congress 
of Berlin in 1878, following the Montenegrin–Ottoman War. In 1905, 
the country became a kingdom. After World War I, it 
became part of Yugoslavia. Following the breakup of Yugoslavia, the 
republics of Serbia and Montenegro together established a federation known 
as the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which was renamed State 
Union of Serbia and Montenegro in 2003. On the basis 
of an independence referendum held in May 2006, Montenegro declared 
independence and the federation peacefully dissolved on 3 June of 
that year. Since 1990, Montenegro has been governed by the 
Democratic Party of Socialists and its minor coalition partners. Classified 
by the World Bank as an upper middle-income country, Montenegro 
is a member of the UN, NATO, the World Trade 
Organization, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, the 
Council of Europe and the Central European Free Trade Agreement. 
It is a founding member of the Union for the 
Mongolia ( (listen); Monggol Ulus in Mongolian; Монгол Улс in 
Mongolian Cyrillic) is a landlocked country in East Asia. Its 
area is roughly equivalent with the historical territory of Outer 
Mongolia, and that term is sometimes used to refer to 
the current state. It is sandwiched between China to the 
south and Russia to the north. Mongolia does not share 
a border with Kazakhstan, although only 37 kilometres (23 mi) 
separates them. At 1,564,116 square kilometres (603,909 sq mi), Mongolia 
is the 18th-largest and the most sparsely populated unitary sovereign 
state in the world, with a population of around 3 
million people. It is also the world's second-largest landlocked country 
behind Kazakhstan and the largest landlocked country that does not 
border a closed sea. The country contains very little arable 
land, as much of its area is covered by grassy 
steppe, with mountains to the north and west and the 
Gobi Desert to the south. Ulaanbaatar, the capital and largest 
city, is home to about 45% of the country's population. 
Approximately 30% of the population is nomadic or semi-nomadic; horse 
culture is still integral. The majority of its population are 
Buddhists. The non-religious population is the second largest group. Islam 
is the dominant religion among ethnic Kazakhs. The majority of 
the state's citizens are of Mongol ethnicity, although Kazakhs, Tuvans, 
and other minorities also live in the country, especially in 
the west. Mongolia joined the World Trade Organization in 1997 
and seeks to expand its participation in regional economic and 
trade groups.The area of what is now Mongolia has been 
ruled by various nomadic empires, including the Xiongnu, the Xianbei, 
the Rouran, the Turkic Khaganate, and others. In 1206, Genghis 
Khan founded the Mongol Empire, which became the largest contiguous 
land empire in history. His grandson Kublai Khan conquered China 
to establish the Yuan dynasty. After the collapse of the 
Yuan, the Mongols retreated to Mongolia and resumed their earlier 
pattern of factional conflict, except during the era of Dayan 
Khan and Tumen Zasagt Khan. In the 16th century, Tibetan 
Buddhism began to spread in Mongolia, being further led by 
the Manchu-founded Qing dynasty, which absorbed the country in the 
17th century. By the early 1900s, almost one-third of the 
adult male population were Buddhist monks. After the collapse of 
the Qing dynasty in 1911, Mongolia declared independence from the 
Qing dynasty, and in 1921 established de facto independence from 
the Republic of China. Shortly thereafter, the country came under 
the control of the Soviet Union, which had aided its 
independence from China. In 1924, the Mongolian People's Republic was 
founded as a socialist state. After the anti-Communist revolutions of 
1989, Mongolia conducted its own peaceful democratic revolution in early 
1990. This led to a multi-party system, a new constitution 
Mexico (Spanish: México [ˈmexiko] (listen); Nahuatl languages: Mēxihco), officially the 
United Mexican States (Spanish: Estados Unidos Mexicanos, listen ), is 
a country in the southern portion of North America. It 
is bordered to the north by the United States; to 
the south and west by the Pacific Ocean; to the 
southeast by Guatemala, Belize, and the Caribbean Sea; and to 
the east by the Gulf of Mexico. Covering almost 2,000,000 
square kilometres (770,000 sq mi), the nation is the fifth 
largest country in the Americas by total area and the 
13th largest independent state in the world. With an estimated 
population of over 120 million people, the country is the 
eleventh most populous state and the most populous Spanish-speaking state 
in the world, while being the second most populous nation 
in Latin America after Brazil. Mexico is a federation comprising 
31 states and Mexico City, a special federal entity that 
is also the capital city and its most populous city. 
Other metropolises in the state include Guadalajara, Monterrey, Puebla, Toluca, 
and Tijuana. Pre-Columbian Mexico dates to about 8000 BC and 
is identified as one of five cradles of civilization and 
was home to many advanced Mesoamerican civilizations such as the 
Olmec, Toltec, Teotihuacan, Zapotec, Maya, and Aztec before first contact 
with Europeans. In 1521, the Spanish Empire conquered and colonized 
the territory from its politically powerful base in Mexico-Tenochtitlan (part 
of Mexico City), which was administered as the viceroyalty of 
New Spain. Three centuries later, the territory became a nation 
state following its recognition in 1821 after the colony's Mexican 
War of Independence. The post-independence period was tumultuous, characterized by 
economic inequality and many contrasting political changes. The Mexican–American War 
(1846–1848) led to a territorial cession of the extant northern 
territories to the United States. The Pastry War, the Franco-Mexican 
War, a civil war, two empires, and the Porfiriato occurred 
in the 19th century. The Porfiriato was ended by the 
start of the Mexican Revolution in 1910, which culminated with 
the promulgation of the 1917 Constitution and the emergence of 
the country's current political system as a federal, democratic republic. 
Mexico has the 15th largest nominal GDP and the 11th 
largest by purchasing power parity. The Mexican economy is strongly 
linked to those of its 1994 North American Free Trade 
Agreement (NAFTA) partners, especially the United States. In 1994, Mexico 
became the first Latin American member of the Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). It is classified as an 
upper-middle income country by the World Bank and a newly 
industrialized country by several analysts. The country is considered both 
a regional power and a middle power, and is often 
identified as an emerging global power. Due to its rich 
culture and history, Mexico ranks first in the Americas and 
seventh in the world for number of UNESCO World Heritage 
Sites. Mexico is an ecologically megadiverse country, ranking fourth in 
the world for its biodiversity. Mexico has many tourists: in 
2016, it was the eighth most-visited country in the world, 
with 35 million international arrivals. Mexico is a member of 
the United Nations (UN), the World Trade Organization (WTO), the 
G8+5, the G20, the Uniting for Consensus group of the 
Mauritania ( (listen); Arabic: موريتانيا‎ Mūrītānyā; Berber: Agawej or Cengiṭ; 
Wolof: Gànnaar; Soninke: Murutaane; Pulaar: Moritani; French: Mauritanie), officially the 
Islamic Republic of Mauritania, is a country in Northwest Africa. 
It is the eleventh largest sovereign state in Africa and 
is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to the west, Western 
Sahara to the north and northwest, Algeria to the northeast, 
Mali to the east and southeast, and Senegal to the 
southwest. The country derives its name from the ancient Berber 
kingdom of Mauretania, which existed from the 3rd century BCE 
into the 7th century CE in the far north of 
modern-day Morocco and Algeria. Approximately 90% of Mauritania's land is 
within the Sahara; consequently, the population is concentrated in the 
south, where precipitation is slightly higher. The capital and largest 
city is Nouakchott, located on the Atlantic coast, which is 
home to around one-third of the country's 4.3 million people. 
The government was overthrown on 6 August 2008, in a 
military coup d'état led by General Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz. 
On 16 April 2009, Aziz resigned from the military to 
run for president in the 19 July elections, which he 
